[ w1216 ] Take Cambridge Analytica 's role in Africa with a pinch of salt IOL News [ w1217 ] Search Newsletter Competitions menu Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close Close UK judge approves warrant to search Cambridge Analytica offices AFP Pedestrians pass the shared building which houses the offices of Cambridge Analytica in central London on March 21 , 2018 A British judge on Friday approved a warrant to search the London offices of Cambridge Analytica , the scandal-hit communications firm at the heart of the Facebook data privacy storm . London ’ s High Court granted the request by UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham , who is investigating claims that the firm may have illegally acquired Facebook data for political ends . A full explanation of the decision will be given on Tuesday , according to the court . The data watchdog is looking into claims that Cambridge Analytica , used by Donald Trump during his primary campaign , illegally mined users ’ Facebook data and then used it to target potential voters . Cambridge Analytica ’ s chief executive Alexander Nix has been suspended after he was exposed in a sting by Britain ’ s Channel 4 News , while Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been forced to issue a statement outlining his firm ’ s role in the scandal and apologise . Cambridge Analytica denies any wrongdoing , and said Friday it was undertaking an independent third-party audit to verify that it does not hold any of the data . “ As anyone who is familiar with our staff and work can testify , we in no way resemble the politically-motivated and unethical company that some have sought to portray , ” acting CEO Alexander Tayler said in a statement . menu News menu Opinion menu Sport menu Horses menu Your life menu Motoring menu Other menu About us About Us – Phakaaathi Advertising Rate Card buyinbulk Citizen Daily Newsletter Citizen Daily Newsletter 2 Citizen Google Search Code of Conduct Contact us Fan Zone horses poll horses poll results Iframe Jobs at The Citizen Lifestyle Editor Newsletter MailChimp for WordPress : Form Preview Newsletter Newsletter General Newsletter Horseracing newsletter horses Newsletter Lifestyle Newsletter Motoring Newsletter Phakaaathi newsletter sport Phakaaathi Newsletter February 2016 Privacy Policy Specials Staff Account Renewel Subscribe to our newsletter ! Subscribers The Citizen App The Citizen . All rights reserved . [ w1218 ] Cambridge Analytica says it 's conducting a third-party audit over Facebook data TODAY.NG News Africa Metro Nigeria Politics World Business Economy Energy Finance Markets Transport Culture Art Film Music People TV Sport Athletics Basketball Boxing Football Tennis Technology Cybersecurity Internet Mobile Science Social Opinion Multimedia Photo Video # Muhammadu Buhari # PDP # APC # Herdsmen # Atiku Abubakar News All Africa Metro Nigeria Politics World Venezuela releases 39 jailed activists 1,840 youths , women to benefit from Fadama III AF II Project… John Oyegun : I won ’ t seek re-election as APC national chairman Donald Trump : America may admit more immigrant workers Business All Economy Energy Finance Markets Transport Central bank injects $ 331.41 million into forex market NSE All-Share Index down by 3.38 per cent on profit taking Ahmed Kuru : AMCON recovers N740bn from debtors in 2017 Deutsche Bank suffers new setback with S & P downgrade Culture All Art Film Music People TV Video : Rapper Falz fires up the internet with ‘ This is Nigeria ’ Sinzu : I could have done a lot in two years I… Chiwetel Ejiofor joins Angelina Jolie in ‘ Maleficent II ’ Cannes winner Kore-eda shines light on Japan ’ s hidden poor Sport All Athletics Basketball Boxing Football Tennis Real Madrid ’ s trophy cabinet too small for 13th European Cup Michel Platini wishes FIFA ethics panel would ‘ disappear ’ Stoke City release Stephen Ireland and Glen Johnson Morocco bid to host 2026 World Cup passes FIFA test Technology All Cybersecurity Internet Mobile Science Social NiMet predicts cloudy skies , rainy activities on Saturday Toshiba completes $ 21 billion sale of chip unit Uganda passes tax law on social media users to curb ‘ gossiping ’ … Canon end sales for its last film camera Opinion Democracy Day : President Buhari ’ s address in full The real price of “ Change The Change ” campaign [ II ] Our children are our future What if President Buhari doesn ’ t run in 2019 ? The impending implosion of APC Multimedia All Photo Video Video : South Africa outrage over ‘ naked ’ school choir performance In Pictures : President Buhari meets new Sierra Leone leader Julius Bio… In Pictures : President Buhari hosts Super Eagles in Aso Rock In Pictures : Super Eagles depart for London Technology Social Cambridge Analytica says it ’ s conducting a third-party audit over Facebook data By Sheriff Bona - Cambridge Analytica ’ s acting CEO said in a statement today that the company will undergo an independent third-party audit to determine whether it still holds any data covertly obtained from Facebook users . The acting CEO , Alexander Tayler , apologized for the recent controversy , and said Cambridge Analytica believed the data had been obtained “ in line with Facebook ’ s terms of service and data protection laws. ” As it has claimed before , Cambridge Analytica says it destroyed the mishandled Facebook data years ago , but new reporting has brought that claim into question . Facebook said recently it was working with a firm to conduct its own audit of Cambridge Analytica , but the investigation is on pause while the United Kingdom ‘ s Information Commissioner ’ s Office ( ICO ) works on its own probe . Tayler says the company is cooperating with the ICO . Tayler , while casting aspersions on the contractor Christopher Wylie , who has become a major source for reporting on Cambridge Analytica , also promised to release more information on the company ’ s practices . While discussing SCL Elections , Cambridge Analytica ’ s parent organization , he seemed to allude to comments made by his predecessor , Alexander Nix , about using entrapment for political gain . “ We take the disturbing recent allegations of unethical practices in our non-US political business very seriously , ” Tayler writes . “ The Board has launched a full and independent investigation into SCL Elections ’ past practices , and its findings will be shared publicly. ” Get more stories like this on Twitter & Facebook AD : To get thousands of free final year project topics and materials sorted by subject to help with your research [ click here ] Alexander Nix Alexander Tayler Cambridge Analytica Christopher Wylie Facebook ICO Information Commissioner Information Commissioner 's Office SCL Elections United Kingdom Share Facebook Twitter Google+ Email WhatsApp Telegram LINE Pinterest Linkedin ReddIt StumbleUpon Digg Police sergeant kills commercial motorcyclist in Kwara Anambra guber : Tribunal fixes hearing of case against Governor Obiano April 17 Related Stories MORE FROM AUTHOR Social Uganda passes tax law on social media users to curb ‘ gossiping ’ online Social Mongolia bans civil servants from using social network sites at work Social Papua New Guinea looks to ban Facebook for a month , considers launching replacement Social Court : Donald Trump blocking Twitter critics unconstitutional Social Twitter to label election candidates with new badges on their profiles Social Driver using Facebook before deadly crash which claimed nine lives Social Facebook boss faces European Parliament over data scandal Social Facebook to hear EU Parliament hearing live Social Over six million tweets on Harry , Meghan ’ s wedding Real Madrid ’ s trophy cabinet too small for 13th European Cup Before Real Madrid ’ s 13th European Cup could be displayed at the Santiago Bernabeu on Friday , the club ’ s trophy cabinet needed to be enlarged , Spanish media reported . Central bank injects $ 331.41 million into forex market The bank said the funds were allocated to companies in the agricultural , airline , petroleum and machinery sectors . Venezuela releases 39 jailed activists Dozens of jailed opponents of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro , including a former mayor of the city of San Cristobal , will be released , authorities have announced . Michel Platini wishes FIFA ethics panel would ‘ disappear ’ Michel Platini wishes the FIFA Ethics Committee which banned him from the sport would disappear , he told two Swiss newspapers in an interview to be published on Saturday . 1,840 youths , women to benefit from Fadama III AF II Project in Bauchi Tayo Adewumi , National Project Coordinator , Fadama III Project , has said 1,840 Internally Displaced youths and women in Bauchi state are to benefit from the Community Action Plan ( CAP ) . Tweets by todayng Presidency : The poor , disadvantaged will not stop supporting President Buhari The Presidency has said that the support for the Buhari/Osinbajo led government , especially among the poor and disadvantaged is unlikely to wane in spite of negative attacks and criticisms from the opposition . Morocco bid to host 2026 World Cup passes FIFA test Morocco 's bid to host the 2026 World Cup has passed crucial evaluation tests from FIFA . Court remands 28-year-old man in prison for stealing wire A Karmo Grade 1 Area Court , Abuja , on Wednesday remanded a 28-year-old man , Abdulrahaman Umar , in prison for stealing borehole wire . Italian president faces impeachment calls after rejecting Eurosceptic minister Italy has been plunged deeper into political turmoil after its president vetoed the appointment of a Eurosceptic finance minister , forcing the country ’ s populist prime minister-in-waiting to abandon attempts to form a government . Ireland abortion referendum : Exit polls suggest repeal landslide Ireland has voted in a historic referendum to repeal the eighth constitutional amendment , which denies women the right to abort pregnancies except when their lives are in danger . Abia News Adamawa News Akwa Ibom News Anambra News Bauchi News Bayelsa News Benue News Borno News Cross River News Delta News Ebonyi News Enugu News Edo News Ekiti News Gombe News Imo News Jigawa News Kaduna News Kano News Katsina News Kebbi News Kogi News Kwara News Lagos News Nasarawa News Niger News Ogun News Ondo News Osun News Oyo News Plateau News Rivers News Sokoto News Taraba News Yobe News Zamfara News Federal Capital Territory News FCT News Abuja News Abia State News Adamawa State News Akwa Ibom State News Anambra State News Bauchi State News Bayelsa State News Benue State News Borno State News Cross River State News Delta State News Ebonyi State News Enugu State News Edo State News Ekiti State News Gombe State News Imo State News Jigawa State News Kaduna State News Kano State News Katsina State News Kebbi State News Kogi State News Kwara State News Lagos State News Nasarawa State News Niger State News Ogun State News Ondo State News Osun State News Oyo State News Plateau State News Rivers State News Sokoto State News Taraba State News Yobe State News Zamfara State News Nigeria News Naija News Biafra News Biafra Herdsmen News Fulani Herdsmen News Fulani News Ekiti Election News Nigeria Election News Boko Haram News INEC News IPOB News MASSOB News Nnamdi Kanu News Aso Rock News Strike News Nigeria Economy News Nigeria Energy News Nigeria Finance News Nigeria Markets News Nigeria Culture News Nigeria Transport News Nigeria Art News Nigeria Film News Nigeria Music News Nigeria People News Nigeria TV News Nigeria Africa News Nigeria Metro News Nigeria Politics News Nigeria World News Nigeria Sport News Nigeria Athletics News Nigeria Basketball News Nigeria Business News Nigeria Boxing News Nigeria Football News Nigeria Tennis News Nigeria Technology News Nigeria Cybersecurity News Nigeria Internet News Nigeria Mobile News Nigeria Science News Nigeria Social Media News JOHESU Strike News About Advertise Contact Terms of Use © Copyright 2017 - Recode Limited Edit with Live CSS Save Write CSS OR LESS and hit save . CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete . WP Fastest Cache file was created in 0.4908390045166 seconds , on 02-06-18 5:05:47 need to refresh to see cached version [ w1219 ] Facebook Data Harvest : IT Experts Warn Nigerians Against Indiscriminate Sharing Of Private Information Online AMP auto ads Facebook Script - Luqman 02/08/17 Facebook Script End mobile menu top section socials close button login section menu section News Politics Sports Entertainment Business World Health Tech More Opinion # WurasDiary # MovingTrain # SpiritualTonic Video Style Travel Editorial Analysis # Trending register/login section close button Header style 1 Saturday , June 2 , 2018 Contact Us About Us USD/NGN 363 Advertise With Us LOGIN MODAL A generated by theme end A Adds White logo to sticky header - Luqman 18-09-17 News Politics Sports Entertainment Business World Health Tech More Opinion # WurasDiary # MovingTrain # SpiritualTonic Video Style Travel Editorial Analysis # Trending Facebook Data Harvest : IT Experts Warn Nigerians Against Indiscriminate Sharing Of Private Information Online By Donatus Anichukwueze - /.td-pb-row Facebook Some Nigerian Information Technology ( IT ) experts on Friday advised Nigerian social media users to stop indiscriminate posting personal information online . They made the appeal in interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) in Lagos . The experts were reacting to the alleged harvesting and use of data on Facebook by a British data firm , Cambridge Analytica . The allegedly harvested data were reportedly used to direct messages for U.S. President Donald Trumps ’ political campaigns and the Brexit vote in the United Kingdom . A generated by theme end A According to Mr Rogba Adeoye , a former President , Information Technology Systems and Security Professionals , the allegation is a wakeup call for social media users to understand the implications of what they do online . Adeoye said : “ We need to stop this habit of putting everything we do on Facebook ; some people are in the habit of placing every minute detail of their lives on social media . “ This has to stop , especially , with the recent exposures on Facebook. ’ ’ He said that although it was good to identify with social media platforms , users should be aware of the inherent dangers of exposing personal data online . “ While using search engines and the social media , data can easily be harvested by anybody that needs it , provided the person can do a proper coding , which is called hacking , ’ ’ Adeoye said . Jide Awe , the Chairman , Conferences Committee , Nigeria Computer Society , noted that social media had yet to be regulated . Awe said that there was the need to remind social media users that they would be responsible for whatever they could do online . “ Many people on social media have yet to realise the danger they can face when they expose so many details online . “ People are yet to realise that once a product is free for use , the user is most likely the product . “ That is what people are finding out with the Facebook and Cambridge Analytica revelations . “ They are taking what people put on Facebook and using it for commercial purposes ; so , we need to be very careful about what we post online , ’ ’ he advised . Awe said that nothing was 100 per cent private online . “ Users need to guard their privacy ; use of social media is not compulsory. ’ ’ Mr Emma Okonji , the Chairman , Nigeria Information Technology Reporters Association of Nigeria ( NITRA ) , said that the allegations were a wake-up call to Facebook and its users . Okonji said that the allegations showed online insecurity and online fraud . He urged that the issues be addressed thoroughly . “ Once confidentiality of information is not guaranteed , it is difficult to determine what the exposed information will be used for . “ We hope that online insecurity and online fraud will be securely dealt with by this revelations , ’ ’ the NITRA chairman said . Meanwhile , Facebook Founder , Mark Zuckerberg , has said that the social media platform had taken steps to crack down on abuses to ensure safety of data on its platform . Zuckerberg , said in a statement on Thursday that the steps were also to ensure that users trust was gained . “ We are announcing some important steps for the future of our platform . “ These steps involve taking action on potential past abuse and putting stronger protections in place to prevent future abuse . “ Protecting people ’ s information is the most important thing we do at Facebook . “ What happened with Cambridge Analytica was a breach of Facebook ’ s trust . “ More importantly , it was a breach of the trust people place in Facebook to protect their data when they share it , ’ ’ Zuckerberg said . A generated by theme end A Facebook Twitter Google+ Linkedin WhatsApp Email Print Displays Share with whtsapp on Story landing page - Luqman 02/08/17 Have a story to tell , or images to share on a breaking news in Nigeria or beyond ? Send them to ( 0906 928 2577 ) Donatus Anichukwueze is a journalism graduate from the Lagos State University , School of Communication . He 's a writer with special interest in technology , sports , entertainment and politics . He 's also a true and true Chelsea FC fan . Sticky Social Icon using Addthis - Luqman 12/08/17 RELATED NEWS MORE FROM AUTHOR Uganda Imposes WhatsApp And Facebook Tax ‘ To Stop Gossip ’ ./td-related-span4 Snapchat Might Soon Offer An Alternative To ‘ Login With Facebook ’ ./td-related-span4 Country Bans Facebook For One Month ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid Google , Facebook Face Complaints Over New EU Law ./td-related-span4 Facebook , Twitter Stiffen Rules For Political Ads ./td-related-span4 Investment Firms Dump Facebook Over Data Privacy ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid ./block /120154381/cng_sidebar_2_300x250 Concise 300x250 Tech Mob/Desk Adamawa Cholera Outbreak Kills 15 ./td-block-span12 APC Not Divided , Insists Gbajabiamila ./td-block-span12 Omokri Reacts To Shooting Of Ex-lawmaker Bamidele ./td-block-span12 Fani-Kayode Names Triplet ./td-block-span12 Ramos Releases World Cup Anthem For Spain ./td-block-span12 ./block /120154381/cng_sidebar_1_300x250 Remembering Thomas Lambo And The Mysteries Of The African Mind ./td-block-span12 2019 : Buhari And The Church ./td-block-span12 2019 : Buhari And The Media ./td-block-span12 Reno Omokri And His Vapid Vituperations On Vice President Osinbajo ./td-block-span12 ./block Concise 300x250 Tech Mob/Desk /.td-pb-row /.post /.td-container /.td-main-content-wrap Instagram Footer We are a modern media house with a pragmatic view about news gathering and delivery . Advertise With Us News Politics Business Tabloid Sports Tech # Trending Analysis Columnists Editorial Opinions Style Travel World Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest scoop right to your inbox . dictate label visibility Description Above Description Below Honeypot Trap List ID The form that is being submitted ! Used to display error/success messages above the correct form Submit Button Nonce Security Check MailChimp Form generated by Easy Forms for MailChimp v6.4.3 ( https : //wordpress.org/plugins/yikes-inc-easy-mailchimp-extender/ ) Sub Footer About Us Advertise With Us We are Hiring Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use © Concise News 2018 . All Rights Reserved close td-outer-wrap Theme : Newspaper by tagDiv.com 2017 Version : 8.7.4 ( rara ) Deploy mode : deploy uid : 5b12179d8bc46 Custom css form theme panel JS generated by theme Edit with Live CSS Save Write CSS OR LESS and hit save . CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete . Alexa - Anu 06/12/17 Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript [ w1220 ] class= '' lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 '' lang= '' en-US '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' lt-ie9 '' lang= '' en-US '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # '' [ w1221 ] Elon Musk deletes SpaceX and Tesla pages from Facebook as he feuds with Mark Zuckerberg ( FB , TSLA ) - Tech - Pulse.ng Blick-Kanal ( bolzurich ) Sport-Kanal ( blicksport ) bu : https : //www.pulse.ng/ Start Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager BI noscript tag End Google Tag Manager Pulse.ng logo Go Finance Lifestyle Politics Sports Strategy Tech Go to Pulse.ng Tech Elon Musk deletes SpaceX and Tesla pages from Facebook as he feuds with Mark Zuckerberg ( FB , TSLA ) Published : 23.03.2018 Print eMail It could be a battle of the billionaires . Elon Musk said he planned to delete the SpaceX Facebook page . ( Joe Skipper/Reuters ) Tweet 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! news SpaceX CEO Elon Musk tweeted on Friday that he had never seen the SpaceX Facebook page and planned to delete it . He & aposs the latest tech entrepreneur to discuss Facebook after the Cambridge Analytica scandal that has cut tens of billions of dollars off Facebook & aposs market value . The Tesla and SpaceX Facebook pages have vanished , minutes after Elon Musk — the CEO of both companies — said that he had never seen the SpaceX Facebook profile and planned to delete it . It started when Musk replied to a tweet earlier in the week from WhatsApp cofounder Brian Acton , when he tweeted `` It is time . # deletefacebook . '' Facebook bought WhatsApp for $ 19 billion in 2014 , making Acton a billionaire . On Friday morning , Musk answered Acton & aposs tweet by saying `` What & aposs Facebook ? '' `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you & aposre the man ? '' a fan chimed in . `` I didn & apost realize there was one . Will do , '' Musk replied . Less than 30 minutes after that tweet , the official Facebook page for SpaceX , along with that of Tesla , vanished . null ( Twitter ) `` Yeah , my fault for being an idiot . We did give them a free launch to make up for it and I think they had some insurance , '' Musk said in a tweet to Mashable & aposs Kerry Flynn . Musk is the latest notable tech entrepreneur to wade into the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal , which centers SpaceX & aposs Facebook page had 2.6 million likes before it was deleted . SpaceX still has a profile on Facebook-owned Instagram . null ( Facebook ) Like Pulse Nigeria Business Insider Follow Pulse Nigeria Business Insider Follow Pulse Nigeria Business Insider Tweet googleoff : index Tech Nigeria ’ s online savings platform secures $ 1.1 million seed funding ... Tech The 32 movies coming out this summer you can ’ t miss — from ... Tech Meet 'The Wolf of Crypto Street , ' an Ohio teenager who used his ... googleon : index /53159133/PulseNG_DT_Article_300x250_C1 googleoff : index Tech Tech Tech Tech googleon : index /53159133/PulseNG_DT_Article_300x600_D1 end content Choose Edition : United States United Kingdom © 2018 Pulse.ng Home About Us Social Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript Google Code for Remarketing Tag Remarketing tags may not be associated with personally identifiable information or placed on pages related to sensitive categories . See more information and instructions on how to setup the tag on : http : //google.com/ads/remarketingsetup - [ w1222 ] Elon Musk Deletes SpaceX , Tesla Facebook Pages AMP auto ads Facebook Script - Luqman 02/08/17 Facebook Script End mobile menu top section socials close button login section menu section News Politics Sports Entertainment Business World Health Tech More Opinion # WurasDiary # MovingTrain # SpiritualTonic Video Style Travel Editorial Analysis # Trending register/login section close button Header style 1 Saturday , June 2 , 2018 Contact Us About Us USD/NGN 363 Advertise With Us LOGIN MODAL A generated by theme end A Adds White logo to sticky header - Luqman 18-09-17 News Politics Sports Entertainment Business World Health Tech More Opinion # WurasDiary # MovingTrain # SpiritualTonic Video Style Travel Editorial Analysis # Trending Elon Musk Deletes SpaceX , Tesla Facebook Pages By Olugbenga Ige - /.td-pb-row Elon Musk . Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk is the latest to jump on the # DeleteFacebook bandwagon . In response to a question from a Twitter userabout deleting SpaceX ’ s Facebook page , Musk replied on Friday : “ I didn ’ t realize there was one . Will do. ” He then deleted the SpaceX page , as well as the Tesla page . A generated by theme end A The Twitter hashtag # DeleteFacebook comes on the heels of last weekend ’ s news that data company Cambridge Analytica gained access to millions of Facebook users ’ data and allegedly used it to try to influence the 2016 US presidential race in favor of Donald Trump . A US House committee on Friday urged Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to personally testify at an upcoming hearing about Facebook ’ s policies on user data . That followed a Thursday apology from Zuckerberg about the data mishap . A generated by theme end A Facebook Twitter Google+ Linkedin WhatsApp Email Print Displays Share with whtsapp on Story landing page - Luqman 02/08/17 Have a story to tell , or images to share on a breaking news in Nigeria or beyond ? Send them to ( 0906 928 2577 ) Olugbenga Ige is an AAUA alumnus . Gbenga loves watching Manchester United play at Old Trafford . When he is n't listening to music , he is watching movies . Gbenga is an experienced reporter at Concise News and a new media enthusiast . Sticky Social Icon using Addthis - Luqman 12/08/17 RELATED NEWS MORE FROM AUTHOR Uganda Imposes WhatsApp And Facebook Tax ‘ To Stop Gossip ’ ./td-related-span4 Snapchat Might Soon Offer An Alternative To ‘ Login With Facebook ’ ./td-related-span4 Country Bans Facebook For One Month ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid Google , Facebook Face Complaints Over New EU Law ./td-related-span4 Facebook , Twitter Stiffen Rules For Political Ads ./td-related-span4 Zuckerberg Agrees To Live-stream EU Parliament Hearing ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid ./block /120154381/cng_sidebar_2_300x250 Concise 300x250 Tech Mob/Desk Adamawa Cholera Outbreak Kills 15 ./td-block-span12 APC Not Divided , Insists Gbajabiamila ./td-block-span12 Omokri Reacts To Shooting Of Ex-lawmaker Bamidele ./td-block-span12 Fani-Kayode Names Triplet ./td-block-span12 Ramos Releases World Cup Anthem For Spain ./td-block-span12 ./block /120154381/cng_sidebar_1_300x250 Iceberg : Bridging The Lawmaker-Electorate Disconnect ./td-block-span12 On Pastor Adeboye , RCCG , Daddy Freeze And Tithing ./td-block-span12 Conversation With Niyi Osundare ./td-block-span12 The Exam Timetable ./td-block-span12 ./block Concise 300x250 Tech Mob/Desk /.td-pb-row /.post /.td-container /.td-main-content-wrap Instagram Footer We are a modern media house with a pragmatic view about news gathering and delivery . Advertise With Us News Politics Business Tabloid Sports Tech # Trending Analysis Columnists Editorial Opinions Style Travel World Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest scoop right to your inbox . dictate label visibility Description Above Description Below Honeypot Trap List ID The form that is being submitted ! Used to display error/success messages above the correct form Submit Button Nonce Security Check MailChimp Form generated by Easy Forms for MailChimp v6.4.3 ( https : //wordpress.org/plugins/yikes-inc-easy-mailchimp-extender/ ) Sub Footer About Us Advertise With Us We are Hiring Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use © Concise News 2018 . All Rights Reserved close td-outer-wrap Theme : Newspaper by tagDiv.com 2017 Version : 8.7.4 ( rara ) Deploy mode : deploy uid : 5b1217a46cf8a Custom css form theme panel JS generated by theme Edit with Live CSS Save Write CSS OR LESS and hit save . CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete . Alexa - Anu 06/12/17 Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript [ w1223 ] [ if IE ] [ w1224 ] Hawk Among Hawks Eager to Confront Foreign Adversaries - World - Pulse Blick-Kanal ( bolzurich ) Sport-Kanal ( blicksport ) bu : https : //www.pulse.com.gh/ Yandex.Metrika counter /Yandex.Metrika counter Start Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager BI noscript tag End Google Tag Manager Pulse.com.gh logo Go Pulse TV News Local Politics World Business The New York Times Filla Entertainment Celebrities Music Movies Lifestyle Fashion Beauty & Health Relationships & Weddings Food & Travel Money Events Mens Health Womens Health P Promos Sports Football LEAGUES Ghana Premier League English Premier League La Liga Bundesliga Serie A Ligue 1 TOURNAMENTS Africa Cup of Nations UEFA Champions League Boxing More Sports Communities Student Bloggers Hot Pulse Business Insider Finance Lifestyle Politics Sports Strategy Tech BI United States BI United Kingdom /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_728x90_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x90_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x90_A1 /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x230_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_160x600_C /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_160x600_C2 World Hawk among hawks eager to confront foreign adversaries He once derided the United Nations by citing its 38-story headquarters in New York . “ If it lost 10 stories , ” he said , “ it wouldn ’ t make a bit of difference. ” Published : 23.03.2018 Print eMail Tweet John Bolton , the former United Nations ambassador , addresses a meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas , March 29 , 2014 . Bolton shares President Donald Trump ’ s derisive opinion of the Iran nuclear deal and will presumably prod him to scrap it when a May deadline arrives . ( John Gurzinski/The New York Times ) googleoff : index googleon : index 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! news John R. Bolton is hardly known for sugarcoating his views . He once derided the United Nations by citing its 38-story headquarters in New York . “ If it lost 10 stories , ” he said , “ it wouldn ’ t make a bit of difference. ” As it happened , Bolton went on to serve as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations , perhaps the most undiplomatic of diplomats . But if President Donald Trump wanted a national security adviser who would match his blunt , hard-edge , confrontational approach to the world , then Bolton fits the bill . With his trademark bushy gray mustache and his take-no-prisoners style , Bolton positioned himself to the right even of the foreign policy veterans who emerged from President George W. Bush ’ s administration , a hawk among hawks , a hard-liner who thrills conservatives and chills moderates and liberals . From his perch on Fox News , he has impressed Trump with a muscular vision of U.S. power and a dark assessment of America ’ s adversaries . When he takes over as Trump ’ s third national security adviser in 14 months , Bolton will almost surely encourage Trump ’ s instincts against diplomatic agreements that both consider weak and unwise . He shares the president ’ s derisive opinion of the Iran nuclear deal and will presumably prod him to scrap it when a May deadline arrives . He likewise takes a dim view of international agreements like the Paris climate change accord , from which Trump announced last year that he would withdraw the United States . He has called the “ two-state solution ” for Israel and the Palestinians dead . But Bolton is not always in step with a president who sometimes veers back and forth between threatening “ fire and fury ” and eagerly seeking talks with foreign leaders . Bolton argues the virtues of pre-emptive military action against North Korea and scorns diplomacy of the sort Trump has embarked on with Kim Jong Un . He promotes more punitive sanctions against Russia rather than the kind of hand-holding flattery of President Vladimir Putin that Trump practiced even this week . He supported the Iraq War , which Trump calls a catastrophic mistake . In an interview Thursday evening on Fox , Bolton said he recognized that his role would be to play the honest broker bringing different views to the president , and that it would be up to Trump to make the decisions . But he made clear that he also planned to be Trump ’ s enforcer . When the president makes a decision , he said , part of his job will be “ making sure the bureaucracies get the decision and implement it. ” Bolton criticized the frequent leaks out of Trump ’ s national security team , saying that a president can not conduct diplomacy “ if some munchkin in the White House ” is leaking information to the news media . “ Leaking of that sort is simply unacceptable , ” he said . Bolton ’ s appointment elicited mixed reviews . “ Selecting John Bolton as national security adviser is good news for America ’ s allies and bad news for America ’ s enemies , ” said Sen. Lindsey Graham , R-S.C. “ He has a firm understanding of the threats we face from North Korea , Iran and radical Islam. ” Critics , however , expressed concern that a bomb thrower in words could become a bomb thrower in deeds . “ Bolton played a key role in politicizing the intel that misled us into the Iraq War , ” Sen. Edward J. Markey , D-Mass. , wrote on Twitter . “ We can not let this extreme war hawk blunder us into another terrible conflict. ” Clifford Kupchan , the chairman of the Eurasia Group , a consulting firm , sent a note to clients warning that Bolton ’ s appointment “ increases risk across the board , ” adding that it “ makes U.S. foreign policy ‘ America First on Steroids. & apos ” At one point , Bolton toyed with running for president himself , only to back off . Instead , he created an organization to support like-minded candidates . His super PAC was one of the earliest customers of Cambridge Analytica , which has found itself confronting a deepening crisis after reports this past weekend that the firm had harvested the data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles in its bid to develop techniques for predicting the behavior of individual U.S. voters . The firm was founded with a $ 15 million investment from Robert Mercer , the wealthy Republican donor who has backed both Bolton ’ s PAC and Trump . Cambridge ’ s so-called psychographic modeling techniques , which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook , underpinned its work for the Trump campaign in 2016 , setting off a furious debate about the merits of the firm ’ s methods . The same techniques were also the focus of its work for Bolton ’ s PAC . Using psychographic models , the company designed advertisements for candidates supported by Bolton ’ s PAC , including the 2014 campaign of Thom Tillis , the Republican senator from North Carolina . One advertisement , a video that was posted on YouTube , was aimed at fearful and neurotic voters — it emphasized security and the idea that Tillis could keep America safe . Bolton also recorded a video used by a Russian gun rights group in 2013 to encourage Moscow to loosen gun laws , according to a report by NPR . The report said the video was part of an effort by Russian and U.S. gun rights groups to collaborate in the years leading up to the 2016 election . A native of Baltimore , Bolton , 69 , received undergraduate and law degrees from Yale University . Between stints in private practice , he took a series of increasingly important jobs in government , starting at the U.S. Agency for International Development under President Ronald Reagan and later as an assistant attorney general . After the 2000 election , Bolton joined the Republican legal team in Florida during the recount battle between Bush and Vice President Al Gore . After the Supreme Court halted the recount , resulting in Bush ’ s victory , Dick Cheney , the new vice president , persuaded the incoming secretary of state , Colin L. Powell , to make Bolton an undersecretary in charge of arms control . In that role , he helped pull the United States out of the Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty but negotiated a separate treaty with Russia paring nuclear arsenals . When Condoleezza Rice succeeded Powell , she rebuffed pressure from Cheney to make Bolton her deputy . Instead , Bush nominated him for the U.N. post , but key Republicans opposed him , including a former assistant secretary of state who testified that Bolton was a “ kiss-up , kick-down sort of guy ” who abused underlings . After the Senate refused to confirm Bolton , Bush gave him a recess appointment instead — a decision he would come to regret . Bolton clashed regularly with Rice and , after leaving office , broke with Bush over what he saw as weak-kneed policies on North Korea and Iran . He titled his memoir “ Surrender Is Not an Option ” and called the Foreign Service officers in the State Department ’ s East Asian and Pacific Affairs Bureau the “ EAPeasers. ” He even went after Bush . “ Nothing can erase the ineffable sadness of an American presidency , like this one , in total intellectual collapse , ” he wrote in The Wall Street Journal . Bush bristled and , in a private meeting with a group of conservatives , said , “ Let me just say from the outset that I don ’ t consider Bolton credible. ” Other former colleagues fought back more publicly . Christopher Hill , who negotiated with North Korea for Bush , dismissed Bolton as “ Phyllis Schlafly with a mustache. ” After Trump ’ s election in 2016 , Rice and other Bush administration veterans like former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Stephen J. Hadley , the former national security adviser , privately warned against an appointment for Bolton . Trump considered Bolton for several posts but ultimately backed away each time . Unlike some of those positions , national security adviser does not require Senate confirmation . In the interim , Bolton has repeatedly praised Trump on television and in his Wall Street Journal columns even when the two disagree . He wrote on Twitter this month that sanctions on Putin and his inner circle needed to be tougher . “ If you want to punish a country for behavior you don ’ t accept , you need punishing sanctions that are broad , not targeted , and they need to be enforced , ” he wrote . In a Journal column , he made the case for a pre-emptive military strike against North Korea . “ Given the gaps in U.S. intelligence about North Korea , we should not wait until the very last minute , ” he wrote . “ That would risk striking after the North has deliverable nuclear weapons , a much more dangerous situation. ” Other options , he told a reporter , would be persuading China to topple North Korea ’ s government or reuniting the peninsula under South Korean rule , although he acknowledged neither was likely . A couple of weeks ago , he went on Fox to disdain South Korea ’ s willingness to negotiate with North Korea . “ They ’ re like putty in North Korea ’ s hands , ” he said . “ As the great international relations theorist P.T . Barnum put it , there ’ s a sucker born every minute. ” Two days later , Trump accepted an invitation to meet with North Korea ’ s Kim . As he prepared to take on his new assignment , however , Bolton was careful to minimize any differences with Trump . Asked Thursday evening on Fox about the president ’ s decision to congratulate Putin on winning an election that most of the world considered a sham , Bolton said , “ I don ’ t consider it a significant point one way or the other , ” adding , “ it ’ s a matter of being polite. ” This article originally appeared in The New York Times . PETER BAKER © 2018 The New York Times googleon : index googleoff : index Tweet Do you ever witness news or have a story that should be featured on Pulse Ghana ? Submit your stories , pictures and videos to us now via WhatsApp : +233507713497 , Social Media : # PulseEyewitness & DM or Email : . News worth talking about from around the world . World World World World World World /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_728x90_B /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_644x90_F googleoff : index /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_300x250_D googleoff : index World U.S . Gives its ties with Taiwan a $ 250 million upgrade World Samantha bee apologizes for slur against Ivanka Trump World Taunting words of teenager : 'You 'll all know who I am . You 're ... World Democratic candidate who criticized Israel faces charges of ... World Magazine hails reform , ignoring jailed reformers World Attacks in Canada and Belgium reflect fuzzy definition ... World Walmart says it will pay for its workers to earn ... World Samsonite chief resigns after accusation of résumé fraud World Senate democrats thought a tie would work in their ... World A racist post , a tv apology , a Trump gripe googleon : index World World Opinion World World World World World World World googleoff : index World World World World googleon : index /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_300x600_E googleon : index end content Pulse.com.gh – News and Entertainment Pulse GH is Ghana 's new media network . 24/7 live news & videos , entertainment , sports , lifestyle , celebrities & more . © 2018 Pulse.com.gh Home Sports About Us Social [ w1225 ] Instagram will show more recent posts due to algorithm backlash - citifmonline.com Instagram will show more recent posts due to algorithm backlash - citifmonline.com This site is optimized with the Yoast SEO plugin v5.8 - https : //yoast.com/wordpress/plugins/seo/ / Yoast SEO plugin . endif ] [ if IE 8 [ w1226 ] Steve Bannon blames Brits educated at Oxford and Cambridge for the Facebook data scandal - Politics - Pulse Blick-Kanal ( bolzurich ) Sport-Kanal ( blicksport ) bu : https : //www.pulse.com.gh/ Yandex.Metrika counter /Yandex.Metrika counter Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript Teads Desktop Teads Desktop Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Start Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager BI noscript tag End Google Tag Manager Pulse.com.gh logo Go Finance Lifestyle Politics Sports Strategy Tech Go to Pulse.com.gh /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_728x90_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x90_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x90_A1 /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x230_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_160x600_C /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_160x600_C2 Politics Steve Bannon blames Brits educated at Oxford and Cambridge for the Facebook data scandal Published : 23.03.2018 Print eMail Tweet Steve Bannon absolved himself of any blame after Cambridge Analytica harvested the data of 50 million Facebook users . Steve Bannon . ( AP Photo/Evan Vucci , File ) news Steve Bannon has denied any knowledge of Cambridge Analytica allegedly using illegitimate Facebook data to target US voters , according to The Guardian . Bannon used to sit on Cambridge Analytica & aposs board , but said any `` dirty tricks '' were down to the Oxbridge-educated Brits who ran its parent firm SCL Group . As Bannon made his comments , AP reported that special counsel Robert Mueller would probe Cambridge Analytica & aposs ties to the Trump campaign . Steve Bannon , the former White House chief strategist and Breitbart executive chairman , has claimed he had nothing to do with any alleged use of Facebook data to win the US presidential election for Donald Trump in 2016 . Bannon was referring to the role of political research firm Cambridge Analytica ( CA ) in helping Trump win the presidency in November that year . The firm allegedly used data illegitimately scraped from Facebook to build `` psychographic '' profiles of American voters and target them with propaganda . Those allegations were first reported by The Observer . Bannon , who was in charge of Trump & aposs campaign at the time , is now pleading innocence at its use of illicitly gained data , according to The Guardian . He told a conference in New York on Thursday that any `` dirty tricks '' were down to SCL Group , Cambridge Analytica & aposs parent firm , and the British men who ran it . He said : `` That ’ s SCL [ the parent company ] ... that ’ s all staffed by British guys from Oxford and Cambridge . CA is the data scientists — the Guardian and the Observer tell you that in about the 10th paragraph . '' Cambridge Analytica & aposs key executives include Eton-educated CEO Alexander Nix , now suspended , Cambridge-educated managing director Mark Turnbull , and Cambridge-educated chief data officer Alexander Tayler . The now-suspended CEO of Cambridge Analytica , Alexander Nix . ( Pedro Nunes/Reuters ) According to the newspaper , Bannon also said : `` I didn ’ t even know anything about the Facebook mining . '' Bannon once sat on Cambridge Analytica & aposs executive board through his connections to its pro-Trump primary funder , the hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer . Bannon has even said that he named Cambridge Analytica . Reports in 2016 suggested the Trump campaign paid Cambridge Analytica $ 5 million for its services in September alone that year , a significant increase from the $ 250,000 it paid one month earlier . It isn & apost clear what impact this had on Trump & aposs campaign , but Cambridge Analytica boasted about its role in his success in an undercover video broadcast by Channel 4 this week . Around the time Bannon was denying his knowledge of Cambridge Analytica & aposs alleged activities , AP reported that special counsel Robert Mueller would investigate the firm & aposs ties to Trump & aposs campaign as part of his ongoing probe into Russian election interference . Like Pulse Ghana Business Insider Follow Pulse Ghana Business Insider Follow Pulse Ghana Business Insider 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! Tweet googleoff : index Politics France 's 'Spiderman ' joins fire brigade as citizenship awaits Politics Trump reportedly bragged about a classified battle in Syria ... Political Babies Meet the gorgeous daughters of popular Ghanaian ... googleon : index /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_300x250_D googleoff : index Politics Politics Politics Politics googleon : index /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_300x600_E end content Pulse.com.gh – News and Entertainment Choose Edition : United States United Kingdom © 2018 Pulse.com.gh Home Sports About Us Social [ w1227 ] Elon Musk deletes SpaceX and Tesla pages from Facebook as he feuds with Mark Zuckerberg ( FB , TSLA ) - Tech - Pulse Blick-Kanal ( bolzurich ) Sport-Kanal ( blicksport ) bu : https : //www.pulse.com.gh/ Yandex.Metrika counter /Yandex.Metrika counter Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript Teads Desktop Teads Desktop Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Start Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager BI noscript tag End Google Tag Manager Pulse.com.gh logo Go Finance Lifestyle Politics Sports Strategy Tech Go to Pulse.com.gh /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_728x90_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x90_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x90_A1 /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_970x230_A /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_160x600_C /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_160x600_C2 Tech Elon Musk deletes SpaceX and Tesla pages from Facebook as he feuds with Mark Zuckerberg ( FB , TSLA ) Published : 23.03.2018 Print eMail Tweet It could be a battle of the billionaires . Elon Musk said he planned to delete the SpaceX Facebook page . ( Joe Skipper/Reuters ) news SpaceX CEO Elon Musk tweeted on Friday that he had never seen the SpaceX Facebook page and planned to delete it . He & aposs the latest tech entrepreneur to discuss Facebook after the Cambridge Analytica scandal that has cut tens of billions of dollars off Facebook & aposs market value . The Tesla and SpaceX Facebook pages have vanished , minutes after Elon Musk — the CEO of both companies — said that he had never seen the SpaceX Facebook profile and planned to delete it . It started when Musk replied to a tweet earlier in the week from WhatsApp cofounder Brian Acton , when he tweeted `` It is time . # deletefacebook . '' Facebook bought WhatsApp for $ 19 billion in 2014 , making Acton a billionaire . On Friday morning , Musk answered Acton & aposs tweet by saying `` What & aposs Facebook ? '' `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you & aposre the man ? '' a fan chimed in . `` I didn & apost realize there was one . Will do , '' Musk replied . Less than 30 minutes after that tweet , the official Facebook page for SpaceX , along with that of Tesla , vanished . null ( Twitter ) `` Yeah , my fault for being an idiot . We did give them a free launch to make up for it and I think they had some insurance , '' Musk said in a tweet to Mashable & aposs Kerry Flynn . Musk is the latest notable tech entrepreneur to wade into the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal , which centers SpaceX & aposs Facebook page had 2.6 million likes before it was deleted . SpaceX still has a profile on Facebook-owned Instagram . null ( Facebook ) Like Pulse Ghana Business Insider Follow Pulse Ghana Business Insider Follow Pulse Ghana Business Insider 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter ! Tweet googleoff : index Tech The 20 best smartphones in the world Figma Design can help emerging markets leap ahead Tech 23 health benefits of marijuana googleon : index /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_300x250_D googleoff : index Tech Tech Tech Tech googleon : index /53159133/PulseGH_DT_Article_300x600_E end content Pulse.com.gh – News and Entertainment Choose Edition : United States United Kingdom © 2018 Pulse.com.gh Home Sports About Us Social [ w1229 ] lang= '' en '' class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //ogp.me/ns/fb # article : http : //ogp.me/ns/article # video : http : //ogp.me/ns/video # profile : http : //ogp.me/ns/profile # '' endif ] [ if IE 9 lang= '' en '' class= '' no-js ie9 '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //ogp.me/ns/fb # article : http : //ogp.me/ns/article # video : http : //ogp.me/ns/video # profile : http : //ogp.me/ns/profile # '' [ w1230 ] Home Kenya Big Four ELECTIONS Africa County News World Fifth Estate All Sites Capital Home News Business Lifestyle Sports Radio Tv Campus Skip to content CFM Home News Business Lifestyle Sports Radio Tv Campus .universal-navigation .cp .site-branding Brand Home Kenya Big Four ELECTIONS Africa County News World Fifth Estate /.navbar-collapse /.container-fluid .navigation form .navigation-holder .site-navigation # masthead /7965891/004 news-ad What made headlines this past week March 23 , 2018 12:15 pm .entry-header www.crestaproject.com Cresta Social Share Counter Content Start www.crestaproject.com Cresta Social Share Counter Content End Top of the charts not only in Kenya but globally is of course the tactics UK-based company Cambridge Analytica employed in getting US President Donald Trump elected/FILE , NAIROBI , Kenya , Mar 23 – Here ’ s a summary of the week ’ s biggest stories as told in our weekly news programme News Shot . Top of the charts not only in Kenya but globally is of course the tactics UK-based company Cambridge Analytica employed in getting US President Donald Trump elected . /7965891/004/0044 news-ad Kenya got dragged into the whole saga by company Executive Mark Turnbull who boasted about the role they also played in getting President Uhuru Kenyatta elected in footage captured on hidden camera by UK ’ s Channel 4 News . The ruling Jubilee Party has however strenuously denied the association . FULL STORY : Jubilee denies Cambridge Analytica managed Uhuru re-election . Coming in Second are the power struggles in the National Super Alliance that continue to be played out in the public domain . A meeting between National Super Alliance principals on Thursday was expected to bring an end to squabbles in their ranks , it did not . On the contrary , it only served to portray the future of NASA as uncertain . This is after they failed to agree on the reinstatement of Moses Wetangula as Minority leader and instead announced that the coalition ’ s Senators would go on a retreat to decide his fate . FULL STORY : Wetangula ouster prompts NASA Senators ’ retreat Kenyatta National Hospital just can ’ t seem to catch a break after news emerged this week that a patient ’ s intestines were damaged during a caesarean section . * Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki however managed to dodge a bullet after an impeachment motion against her was withdrawn . FULL STORY : MP beats hasty retreat in CS Kariuki ouster bid The signing of a continental free trade agreement on Wednesday was also big news globally after 44 African countries became signatories to what is viewed as the biggest trade agreement since the World Trade Organisation . 27 other countries , signed a separate agreement for the free movement of their nationals across their borders for a maximum of 90 day stays . The continental free trade area agreement will however need to be ratified by the respective parliaments with economic power houses Nigeria and South Africa yet to sign on . Critics of the deal are concerned that the agreement lacks legs to stand on and teeth to bite as there are no consequences to non-compliance . In making their case they ’ ve pointed to the failure of regional blocs to realise their objectives . Advocates of the deal argue a continent wide free trade area is the only way for Africa to achieve its economic potential ; by growing its markets . Africa currently does the least intra-continental trade and businesses currently pay higher tariffs when they export within Africa than when they export outside it . FULL STORY : 44 African nations sign pact establishing free trade area : AU Sudan , the last male Northern White Rhino died on Tuesday from age related complications . He suffered from a hard-to-treat infection in one of his legs on his last days . The 45-year-old Rhino left behind a daughter and grand-daughter with the future of their species dependent on advancements in Artificial Insemination . The police service payment structure also made national news after it emerged that graduate servicemen were irregularly awarded pay increments . A move to rationalize these increments led to a public outcry and debate that carried over to the August House . In response , the National Police Service Commission shelved the rationalisation plans to allow the affected officers “ meet their pre arranged financial commitments. ” FULL STORY : Police Commission shelves officers pay-cut plans *After carrying out an internal investigation , KNH denied that negligence on the part of its staff caused the damage . “ Patient had hidden defects in her abdomen that were unrelated to the surgery. ” www.crestaproject.com Cresta Social Share Counter Content Start www.crestaproject.com Cresta Social Share Counter Content End .entry-content .button-item .button-item Tweet .button-item .button-item button-alignment .share-button-holder .share-buttons .button-item button-alignment .read-later-button-holder .read-later-buttons .sharer-content Share this article Read later .sharer .tags .share-toggles .share .entry-meta .avatar With a decade of storytelling under her belt , Olive Burrows has been with Capital FM for the last four years and perhaps most notably interviewed US President Barack Obama . Committed to asking the hard questions and telling the story in the most engaging way possible , she has also interviewed Melinda Gates , a UK Minister and severally had the opportunity to sit across from President Uhuru Kenyatta and address the pressing issues of the day . Other notables she has had occasion to seek answers from are UN Secretary General António Guterres and John Kerry in his time as US Secretary of State . Other articles from OLIVE BURROWS .internal-links .social .link-through .bio .author .entry-meta Related Articles Munya among CS nominees facing challenge IEBC says to meet Raila , President Kenyatta separately Kuria , Muthama held by police over alleged hate speech President Kenyatta gets second term with 8.2mn votes against Raila ’ s 6.7mn A tough talking Uhuru parades trophies won down at the Coast , won ’ t ‘ cry ’ for votes You are holding brief for President Kenyatta , NASA tells KEPSA President Kenyatta wants petitions against his victory dismissed Security tight ahead of Raila ’ s Tuesday declaration .entry-footer # post- # # .main-page-section Latest Articles .widget-title N. Korea summit back on , Trump says after meeting Kim envoy Washington , United States , May 29 - US President Donald Trump said Friday he will meet North Korea 's EU joins global battle against Trump tariff onslaught Brussels , Belgium , Jun 1 - The EU fired its first riposte against Washington 's punishing steel and aluminium Italy ’ s populist government takes office Rome , Italy , Jun 1 - Italy 's new anti-establishment government took power on Friday , ending months of Focus shifts to procurement heads in Uhuru ’ s war against graft MERU , Kenya , June 1 – President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered fresh vetting for all procurement heads Belgium charges Abdeslam accomplice over 2016 bombings Brussels , Belgium , Jun 1 - A Belgian judge has charged an accomplice of Paris attacks suspect Salah .widget-content More Stories .widget /7965891/004/0041 news-ad .widget-content .widget Opinion Leaders .widget-title .author Transforming Primary Health Care key to achieving Universal Health Coverage in Kenya By Nayyar and Chatterjee comments views .details oped-piece .author Harnessing the Blue Economy must consider social inclusion and responsible stewardship By Amb . Kamau and Chatterjee comments views .details oped-piece .author What we can learn from other developing nations to advance our tourism By Bobby Kamani comments views .details oped-piece .widget-content .widget /7965891/004/0043 news-ad .widget-content .widget Most Viewed .widget-title Police hunting 18 NYS fraud suspects as 12 surrender NAIROBI , Kenya June 1 – Police have launched a manhunt for 18 suspects facing fraud charges in the Kenya commemorates 55 years of independence NAIROBI , Kenya June 1 – Kenya is today celebrating 55 years of internal self rule attained 55 years Focus shifts to procurement heads in Uhuru ’ s war against graft MERU , Kenya , June 1 – President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered fresh vetting for all procurement heads President Kenyatta warns of tougher action to combat graft NAIROBI , Kenya June 1 - President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned that he will not tolerate corrupt officials Jordan price hikes spark protests , royal reprieve Amman , Jordan , Jun 1 - Jordan 's King Abdullah II ordered the government on Friday to freeze new price .widget-content .widget .widgets .widget-section .inside-page-wrapper .site-main .content-area # content News Kenya Africa World Focus on China Blogs .site-section Business Technology Ask Kirubi The Whiteboard Infographics Enterprise .site-section Sports Athletics Tusker Premier League Rugby .site-section Campus Lifestyle Career Money Sports Resources .site-section Lifestyle Entertainment Fashion & Beauty Health The Good Life Relationships & Sex .site-section Radio Shows Presenters Djs Mixes Stories .site-section Tv News Videos Music Videos Shows Our 2 Cents Ask Kirubi The Chop Up The Grill Capital Sound Check The Scoop .site-section Apps Android .site-section Social Media Facebook Twitter Google + YouTube .container .footer-links .footer-content Partners Privacy Policy Advertise with us About Us Contact Us © 2018 Capital Digital Media . Capital Group Limited . All Rights Reserved .cp .footer-bottom # colophon # page Ben http : //coterie.co.ke/ben [ w1247 ] Start GDPR cookies policy By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them . You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them . End GDPR cookies policy MAIN WARP INNER HEADER HEADER TOP PANEL TOP MENU Home Markets Companies Opinion Specials PF Portfolio My Page Multimedia IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Photo Gallery Video Gallery Home Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls TOP MENU END BS APPS iPad iPhone Android Wap BS PRODUCTS Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books Today 's Paper BS E-Paper Bs Learning , Change Password Subscribe Sign out Change Password Manage My Account Sign out SIGN IN Subscribe TOP PANEL END LOGO BS LOGO BS LOGO END LOGO END SECOND MENU SECOND MENU END Latest News Ticker Start JUST IN Modi magic fading ? United Opposition must not ignore BJP 's 2 key advantages Bypoll results 2018 : BJP 's Lok Sabha tally down to 271 from 282 in 2014 Bypoll results 2018 : After defeat , BJP now the target of allies , rivals Bypoll results : BJP loses prestige battle in Kairana to united Opposition BJP retains 1 seat out of 3 in LS bypolls , has a wafer thin majority now Bypoll results 2018 : Kairana has a loud message for Modi-Shah before 2019 Bypoll results LIVE : Modi , Shah get wake-up call from Kairana before 2019 Why Mukherjee 's Nagpur visit should worry BJP brass more than Congress Sir , please tell RSS why their ideology is wrong : Chidambaram tells Pranab Why Pranab Mukherjee going to an RSS function is raising eyebrows News Stock Quote Authors Topic Video Latest News Ticker end Latest News Ticker Start Latest News Ticker end HEADER END You are here : Home » Politics » News » National HEADER END Change for Market Tags START Change for Market Tags END Country Code=US HEADER END MAIN CONTENT AREA /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 Move Video Embed code Top if Exist Start Move Video Embed code Top if Exist End MAIN CONTENT AREA END FOOTER MORE ON MARKETS : LEFT CONTENT Quick Links Stock Market Live Portfolio Commodity Market Upcoming IPO Personal Finance Stock Market News Derivatives Mutual Funds Gold Price Sensex RIGHT CONTENT Browse STOCK Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z RIGHT CONTENT END Index Stocks Adani Ports Asian Paints Axis Bank B P C L Bajaj Auto Bajaj Finance Ltd Bajaj Finserv Bharti Airtel Bharti Infra . Cipla Coal India Dr Reddy 's Labs Eicher Motors GAIL ( India ) Grasim Inds H D F C HCL Technologies HDFC Bank Hero Motocorp Hind . Unilever Hindalco Inds . Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd ICICI Bank Indiabulls Housing Finance Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. IndusInd Bank Infosys ITC Kotak Mah . Bank Larsen & Toubro Lupin M & M Maruri Suzuki NTPC O N G C Power Grid Corpn Reliance Inds . St Bk of India Sun Pharma . Inds . Tata Motors Tata Motors-DVR Tata Steel TCS Tech Mahindra Titan Company UltraTech Cement Ltd UPL Ltd Wipro Yes Bank Zee Entertainment RIGHT CONTENT END TRENDING ON BS # Markets # BSWeekend # BSTech # GST # BSSpecial Copyrights © 2018 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved . From BS Website Home Companies Markets Opinion Politics Technology Specials Personal Finance Latest News Today 's Paper RBI Policy General News General Videos General Photo Gallery Events Authors Education About us About Us Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy Disclaimer Investor Communication List of our GST registration number Support & Contact Partner with Us Careers Advertise with Us Contact Us Feedback Browser Support Sitemap Subscribe E-Paper BS Magazines Portfolio Tracker BS Products Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books B2B Connect iPhone iPad android wap BS Banking Round Table 2017 BS Fund Cafe 2017 Budget Insight Out Election Karnataka Election 2018 IPL ipl 2018 Connect with BS Facebook Google+ Linkedin Twitter Youtube RSS Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of `` Business Standard Premium Services '' As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include : Access Exclusive content - articles , features & opinion pieces Weekly Industry/Genre specific newsletters - Choose multiple industries/genres Access to 17 plus years of content archives Set Stock price alerts for your portfolio and watch list and get them delivered to your e-mail box End of day news alerts on 5 companies ( via email ) NEW : Get seamless access to WSJ.com at a great price . No additional sign-up required . Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS . Kindly visit the to discover the benefits of this programme . Enjoy Reading ! Team Business Standard Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel : Home Page , publisher : default , Ad Dimension : Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel : Home Page , publisher : default , Ad Dimension : Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 Notifications For Free Users FOOTER END Google Analytics Start Google Analytics End Comscore start Comscore End RUM Wrapper from Akamai 's start RUM Wrapper from Akamai 's End Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code Subscription band - Start Subscription band - Start [ w1248 ] Facebook data breach : Centre issues notice to Cambridge Analytica data breach facebook data privacy cambridge analytica Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) MAGAZINE The Week Health Wallet Contact Login Logout Message Us Subscribe input class= '' sb-search-submit '' type= '' submit '' value= '' '' span class= '' voice-search fa fa-microphone '' aria-hidden= '' true '' HOME INDIA WORLD BUSINESS SPORTS SCI/TECH LEISURE ENTERTAINMENT REVIEWS COLUMNS VIDEOS GALLERY DATA PRIVACY Facebook data breach : Centre issues notice to Cambridge Analytica Cracking the whip on alleged misuse of user data on Facebook , the Union government today issued a notice to UK-based Cambridge Analytica , asking it to give a list of clients and the source of data it had collected . The notice came after reports that political parties had used the data analytics firm during elections . The IT Ministry has asked Cambridge Analytica – the firm at the centre of Facebook data breach scandal – to respond by March 31 on six questions , including how the company had collected user data , whether consent was taken from the individuals , and how the data was used . The move assumes significance as the BJP , earlier this week , had questioned links between the Congress and Cambridge Analytica , the data mining firm accused of harvesting personal information from Facebook illegally to influence polls in several countries . Taking a stern view of reports on the misuse of user data obtained from social media platform Facebook , the IT Ministry in a statement today said that `` breach of privacy can not be tolerated '' . `` The government is deeply concerned about such developments and is committed to ensuring the protection of the fundamental right of privacy and safety and security of data for every citizen of India , ” the ministry said . The IT Ministry said it had issued a notice to Cambridge Analytica `` wherein the serious breach of propriety and misuse of data intended to profile and influence voting behaviour has been highlighted '' . The notice comes just days after Law and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad warned the social media giant Facebook of stringent actions for any attempt to influence polls through data theft . Prasad had even threatened to summon its CEO Mark Zuckerberg , if needed . `` ... the notice addressed to Cambridge Analytica seeks an immediate response to the following questions ... Whether they have been engaged in any assignment to utilise data of Indians from the above-cited breach . Who are the entities that have engaged them for the above , '' it said . The ministry also questioned the company on how it had come to be in possession of user data and whether user consent had been taken for the same . The company has also been asked to divulge details of how the data collected was used and whether any profiling was done on basis of such data . `` The intermediaries cited above have been given time till March 31 , 2018 , to submit their responses on the above issue , '' the ministry said . Referring to media reports of `` gross abuse of social media platform to influence the sanctity of polling process '' , the ministry said , `` any attempt to influence the sanctity of the electoral franchise through dubious and questionable means is unacceptable '' . `` In particular , all intermediaries and their associates have the legal obligation to maintain security , confidentiality and sanctity of data and any unauthorized use of data can entail legal action , '' it warned . The statement said that Indian Computer Emergency Response Team ( CERT-In ) has issued advisory laying down security best practices to be followed by social media users , to safeguard personally identifiable information on social network sites . TAGS Cambridge Analytica Facebook MOST READ Tough love Kerala : 10-year-old molested in cinema hall , mother booked under POSCO Karnataka elections : Divya Spandana , Prakash Raj face social media wrath for not voting Fahadh Faasil : Where stardom dies , an actor is born Now , manage cancer with wearable technology Eminent physicist E.C.G . Sudarshan dies in Texas Kerala DHSE Plus Two results 2018 to be declared today on dhsekerala.gov.in ; how to check your scores NET concern DOWNLOAD The Week Mobile App Terms & Conditions Privacy & Statement Copyright © 2018 All rights reserved [ w1249 ] HTML India issues notice to Cambridge Analytica in Facebook data breach case - Livemint Home Companies Money Industry Technology Politics Opinion Lounge More ... Science Sports Multimedia Education Consumer Specials epaper × Home Companies Money Industry Technology Politics Money Opinion Lounge Multimedia Science Education Sports Consumer Specials × Home » Politics India issues notice to Cambridge Analytica in Facebook data breach case The government wants to know whether Cambridge Analytica was involved in misuse of data to profile Indians and influence their voting behaviour Sat , Mar 24 2018 . 03 52 AM IST The government notice also sought information on entities which engaged Cambridge Analytica , the method used by it for possession of data and whether consent was taken from users . Photo : Bloomberg New Delhi : The ministry of electronics and information technology on Friday issued a notice to London-based analytics firm , Cambridge Analytica , seeking response on issues related to data of Indians collected by the firm or its intermediaries or associates . The government has sent six questions to the company and have sought responses by 31 March , failing which it may entail legal action , ministry said in a statement . Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of the Facebook data breach controversy where data of 50 million users in the US was compromised to benefit Donald Trump ’ s presidential campaign in 2016 . The IT ministry notice seeks clarity from Cambridge Analytica whether it engaged in any assignment to utilize data of Indians in regards to the breach . The government has also sought the details of the entities who have engaged the firm for any intention to profile and influence voting behaviour . According to a statement by IT ministry , such a notice was sent out to the accused company as the government is “ deeply concerned about such developments and is committed to ensure the protection of the fundamental right of privacy and safety and security of data for every citizen of India ” . “ While the government is cognizant of the positive role played by social media in promoting awareness and acting as a tool for social cohesion and empowerment ; breach of privacy can not be tolerated , ” the statement added . The IT ministry also said that CERT-In , the national nodal agency that deals with cybersecurity threats , has issued an advisory which lays down best security practices to be followed by social media users in order to safeguard personally identifiable information on social network sites . On Thursday , Ovleno Business Intelligence Pvt . Ltd ( OBI ) , the Indian affiliate of Cambridge Analytica , denied use of any data collected from the public without their consent for any of its political analysis . OBI vice-president Himanshu Sharma also denied having worked with Cambridge Analytica on any project related to social media . All intermediaries and their associates have the legal obligation to maintain security , confidentiality and sanctity of data and any unauthorized use of data can entail legal action , the ministry statement said . Mint on Friday reported that the government is planning to come up with a long-term strategy to secure data on Indians , especially those using social media . On Wednesday , IT and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had accused the Congress of indulging in “ theft of online data ” to help with its election campaigns . He had also warned Facebook of stringent legal action if it was found misusing data on Indians . Congress president Rahul Gandhi , in turn , targeted the BJP-led union government saying that the party has “ invented story on Congress and data theft ” to deflect attention from the controversy over 39 Indians who died in Iraq . Topics : India Facebook Cambridge Analytica Facebook data breach goverment notice More From Politics » PM Modi threads path between rising China , uncertain US Suresh Prabhu slams US ’ s tariffs on aluminium , steel at OECD meet Ecotourism will be useful as long as we restrict numbers : Punati Sridhar Genetic factors may have a role to play in economic inequality Key to tackling plastic is mindful consumption Editor 's Picks » Latest News » Sanju ‘ giri ’ Petrol , diesel prices cut by 9 paise per litre PM Modi threads path between rising China , uncertain US Idea to seek nod for fundraise , new name Ikea may have a price war in store for India Mark to Market » Will ICICI Bank investors now find closure in Chanda Kochhar controversy ? When auditors grow a spine , investor health should get a boost Why it became impossible to get bids for Air India India Q4 GDP data : Non-farm private sector growth slows Petrochemical , gas trading businesses a drag on GAIL ’ s Q4 results Home Companies Opinion Industry Politics Consumer Lounge Multimedia Money Science Education Sports Specials Technology Contact Us About Us Advertising Mint Apps Sitemap DesiMartini Shine Hindustantimes Syndication Brand Stories Livehindustan Subscribe Board Results Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mint Code RSS Copyright © 2018 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved [ w1250 ] HTML Facebook data breach case : Government issues notice to Cambridge Analytica - Times of India Server : 112 [ if lte IE 8 ] [ w1251 ] HTML Name clients and source of data , Centre tells Cambridge Analytica India News - Times of India Server : 58 [ if lte IE 8 ] [ w1252 ] Facebook dropped from Australian Ethical ETF - The Express Tribune [ if lte IE 6 ] [ w1253 ] meta [ if IE ] [ w1254 ] Oregon attorney general considers investigating Facebook Mobile li class= '' btn btn-success '' style= '' margin-top : 5px ; margin-left : 10px ; '' [ w1255 ] Required meta tags title Musk deletes Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX after challenged on Twitter Tech/Gadgets Malay Mail About Us Advertise with Us Malay Mail End nv header Home Malaysia World Money Life Eat/Drink Showbiz Opinion Sports Tech/Gadgets Drive ProjekMM 中文网 Home Malaysia World Money Life Eat/Drink Showbiz Opinion Sports Tech/Gadgets Drive About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise with Us ProjekMM 中文网 Apple AppStore Google Play Store Google Newsstand Loading ... Home Tech/Gadgets Musk deletes Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX after challenged on Twitter Published 2 months ago on 24 March 2018 Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . — Reuters pic FRANKFURT , March 24 — Verified Facebook pages of Elon Musk ’ s rocket company SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla Inc disappeared yesterday , minutes after the Silicon Valley billionaire promised on Twitter to take down the pages when challenged by users . “ Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you ’ re the man ? ” a user tweeted to Tesla Chief Executive Musk . His response : “ I didn ’ t realise there was one . Will do. ” Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on the # deletefacebook tag . The hashtag gained prominence after the world ’ s largest social network upset users by mishandling data , which ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica — a political consultancy that worked on US President Donald Trump ’ s 2016 election campaign . “ What ’ s Facebook ? ” Musk tweeted . Many users also urged the billionaire to delete the profiles of his companies on Facebook ’ s photo-sharing app Instagram . “ Instagram ’ s probably ok ... so long as it stays fairly independent , ” Musk responded . “ I don ’ t use FB & never have , so don ’ t think I ’ m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we don ’ t advertise or pay for endorsements , so ... don ’ t care. ” Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Last year , a war of words broke out between Musk and Zuckerberg over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators . When Zuckerberg was asked about Musk ’ s views on the dangers of robots , he chided “ naysayers ” whose “ doomsday scenarios ” were “ irresponsible. ” ) In response , Musk tweeted : “ His understanding of the subject is limited. ” — Reuters Related Articles Facebook to swap ‘ trending ’ topics for breaking news Facebook sinking fast among US teens , survey shows Uganda imposes tax on social media use End Article body Loading ... End Sidebar Loading ... End article section @ themalaymail News Malaysia World Money Life Eat/Drink Showbiz Opinion Sports Tech/Gadgets Drive About About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise with Us Download Apple AppStore Google Play Store Google Newsstand Subscribe to Newsletter © 2018 , Malay Mail , All Rights Reserved . Optional JavaScript jQuery first , then Popper.js , then Bootstrap JS Go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools [ w1256 ] Required meta tags title Mukhriz free to take me to court , says former aide Malaysia Malay Mail About Us Advertise with Us Malay Mail End nv header Home Malaysia World Money Life Eat/Drink Showbiz Opinion Sports Tech/Gadgets Drive ProjekMM 中文网 Home Malaysia World Money Life Eat/Drink Showbiz Opinion Sports Tech/Gadgets Drive About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise with Us ProjekMM 中文网 Apple AppStore Google Play Store Google Newsstand Loading ... Home Malaysia Mukhriz free to take me to court , says former aide Published 2 months ago on 23 March 2018 Mukhriz had denied the claim that he helped BN sweep to victory in Kedah during GE13 . — Picture by Azneal Ishak PETALING JAYA , March 23 ― Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir ’ s former aide says the PPBM deputy president was free to take him to court if he could prove that he was lying . “ Who is En Azrin Zizal compared to Yang Berhormat Datuk Seri Mukhriz bin Tun Dr Mahathir ? I am a nobody compared to him , a millionaire from a distinguished lineage , ” said Azrin told Free Malaysia Today ( FMT ) . Azrin Zizal , who now heads the Southeast Asia division of SCL Group , the parent group of Cambridge Analytica ( CA ) , said Mukhriz had benefitted from the services of a firm linked to the controversial British political consultant firm . According to FMT , the war of words between Mukhriz and Azrin was sparked after Barisan Nasional BN distanced itself from CA , following a claim that it had hired the company to help its campaign to wrest Kedah from PAS in the last election . Mukhriz had denied the claim , saying Azrin was “ absolutely delusional ” for saying that he helped BN sweep to victory in Kedah during GE13 . CA made global headlines this week after it was accused of extracting data belonging to 50 million Facebook users without consent , in the campaign to help Donald Trump win the US presidential election last year . Related Articles Despite announcement , Kedah MB says RM30b Langkawi New City project unapproved Salaries of Kedah MB , excos cut by 10pc Mukhriz : Cause of floods to be determined immediately End Article body Loading ... End Sidebar Loading ... End article section @ themalaymail News Malaysia World Money Life Eat/Drink Showbiz Opinion Sports Tech/Gadgets Drive About About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise with Us Download Apple AppStore Google Play Store Google Newsstand Subscribe to Newsletter © 2018 , Malay Mail , All Rights Reserved . Optional JavaScript jQuery first , then Popper.js , then Bootstrap JS Go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools [ w1257 ] Edition : Malaysia Singapore MY SG e-Paper Desktop Reader arrow drop search cross Ways to search theedgemarkets.com content by Title : @ title `` the edge malaysia '' by Author : @ author `` lucas wong ” by category : @ category `` corporate '' `` hot stock ” Combine search : '' high speed rail '' @ author `` Bhattacharjee '' @ category `` From the Edge '' Searching either words : 1MDB MAS Searching all words : “ Genting Berhad ” Searching Chinese phrase : “ 马电讯 ” News Search Home Corporate Sections Options City & Country Personal Wealth Enterprise Opinion The Edge TV Evening 5 Talking Edge Behind The Story # JustSaying UPSTART Friday Takeaway News Others Politics and Government Automotive Technology Aviation 新闻 EdgeProp.my Trending Now 02 June 2018 . Saturday Facebook ‘ knew of loopholes in 2011 ’ — privacy campaigner This article first appeared in The Edge Financial Daily , on . - A + A VIENNA : Facebook was warned in 2011 of the loopholes exploited by UK data firm Cambridge Analytica ( CA ) but said it saw no need to change its policies , an Austrian privacy campaigner said on Wednesday . Max Schrems , an activist who has brought several cases before European courts to strengthen data protection online , said that the controversial data harvesting methods at the centre of the current scandal were exactly those he had raised in a complaint before the Irish Data Protection Authority in 2011 . The current scandal centres on an app which its developer says was used by 200,000 people , but which saw around 30 million US Facebook users ’ details harvested . The app ’ s vast reach beyond its users was due to it scooping up data from users ’ friends on Facebook . CA is accused of then improperly using the data for US President Donald Trump ’ s 2016 election campaign . “ There are thousands of other apps that have probably done exactly the same thing , the only reason we ’ re talking about this is because it ’ s to do with Trump . But it might not be the biggest case , ” Schrems said . — AFP We deliver news to your inbox daily Featured EVENING 5 : India cops to grill AirAsia boss Featured FRIDAY TAKEAWAY : What next for Gamuda and IJM ? Featured NEWS : GST to cause RM21b shortfall Featured EVENING 5 : Govt to review RM10 bil of projects Featured UPSTART : Making your laundry high-tech Featured EVENING 5 : Mahathir cancels MRT3 , brings back SST Featured NEWS : JB-SG link to continue but… Featured NEWS : GLC bosses ’ salaries to be reviewed Featured # JUSTSAYING : Malaysia ’ s reform , rebooted Featured EVENING 5 : Millions in penalty as Msia scraps HSR Most Read Most Watched Singapore to return stolen 1MDB money No toll for KL-Seremban and Salak highways starting June 1 M'sian govt must 'pay price ' for axing infra project deals , says China daily Letter from the publisher : Who was in the room with Xavier Andre Justo and Straits Times reporter Nirmal Ghosh ? Rehiring programme for illegal workers to end on June 30 Friday Takeaway FRIDAY TAKEAWAY : What next for Gamuda and IJM ? News NEWS : “ We don ’ t want to punish unnecessarily ” Evening 5 EVENING 5 : Govt to review RM10 bil of projects News NEWS : DBKL seeks return of land sold under Ku Nan News NEWS : Tabung Harapan collects RM7m in 24 hours e-Paper Desktop Reader Home About Us Join Us Contact Us Advertise with us Subscription Sitemap Term of use PDPA © All rights reserved . 2018 . The Edge Communications Sdn . Bhd . [ w1258 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' Petronas denies allegations Daily Express Newspaper Online , Sabah , Malaysia . Home Sabah National Business Sport Features Home / Business News Petronas denies allegations Published on : Friday , March 23 , 2018 Kuala Lumpur : Petroliam Nasional Bhd ( Petronas ) has categorically denied the allegations made against the company by an online portal on March 20 , 2018 . In a statement on Thursday , Petronas had also refuted any association with data consultancy firm , Cambridge Analytica , and its parent company , SCL Group . The Malaysian government had also clarified that it had never engaged with the firm or its parent company in any way . Cambridge Analytica is a London-based political consulting firm which had been accused of extracting the personal data of up to 50 million Facebook users without consent to help Donald Trump in his US presidential campaign in 2016 . – Bernama Related Story There 's currently no related news News Categories Sabah Local News National News Business News Sport News Features Special Reports Forum Opinion Most Read W Cup telecast to cost RM30m 'Ask Musa then where 's the RM4b ? ' Many west coast areas end up flooded Inanam rep wins crown Man found dead inside his car Musa says will be back to give his statement New 50-acre cultural centre Set aside differences : Shafie 3,000 attend spiritual concert in Ranau Post-GST price monitoring Advertisement Daily Express Newspaper Daily Express is popular with readers and advertisers of all background and interests , largely because of its quality editorial contents , which are indepth , balanced and objective , as well as its independent approach to news coverage . The paper covers a wide range of topics including international , national and local news , financial and business pages , sports ( in colour ) , entertainment and leisure , women page ( in colour ) , doctor column , student page , Hotline ( a public service ) , and others . Navigate Front Page About Us Advertise Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use News Headlines Sabah National Business Sport Features Daily Express on the go Get the latest news anywhere ... anytime ! - on your smartphone . © Copyright 2018 Sabah Publishing House Sdn . Bhd . [ w1259 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' Yes , Rosmah Was Invited To Receive An Award For Her Work With Permata By Cambridge IF Analytica [ if ie ] endif ] [ if ie 7 endif ] [ if ie 7 [ w1260 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' Facebook Dropped From Australian Ethical ETF After Data Breach [ if ie ] endif ] [ if ie 7 endif ] [ if ie 7 [ w1261 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' Petronas Warns Staff Not To Be Misled By False Information Following Cambridge Analytica Allegations [ if ie ] endif ] [ if ie 7 endif ] [ if ie 7 [ w1262 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' How Sarawak Report Helped Cambridge Analytica Destroy Mukhriz Mahathir [ if ie ] endif ] [ if ie 7 endif ] [ if ie 7 [ w1263 ] Facebook sells your data : Former VP of Cambridge Analytica Steve Bannon Catch News Google Analytics code start Google Analytics code end Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code Heat Map Code Heat Map Code informvisitors informvisitors colombia ad colombia ad fork tech fork tech ABC TAG CODE STARTS HERE ENDS HERE Begin comScore Tags Start Visual Website Optimizer Asynchronous Code End Visual Website Optimizer Asynchronous Code Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript Mobile Header start India Politics Business & Eco International Environment Career Cricket Hockey Football Tennis Others Culture Life & Society Bizarre Social Media Hollywood Bollywood TV Science Technology Gadgets Apps CLOSE India Sports Politics Business international Culture Health SCIENCE & TECH Environment Little Star Cafe State India Sports Politics Business international Culture Health State Introversial ad start Javascript tag Introversial ad start Facebook sells your data : Former VP of Cambridge Analytica Steve Bannon 0 SHARES 0 SHARES 0 COMMENTS 0 SHARES 0 SHARES 0 COMMENTS div class= '' full-width '' EXT_CatchNews_Web_ROS_AS_RCMW_EOA2 , position=1 EXT_CatchNews_mWeb_ROS_AS_RCMW_EOA , position=1 begin ZEDO for channel : Catchnews-Reliance-CPC_RON_IN , publisher : Catch news , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 script language= '' JavaScript '' var zflag_nid= '' 1528 '' ; var zflag_cid= '' 3639 '' ; var zflag_sid= '' 631 '' ; var zflag_width= '' 300 '' ; var zflag_height= '' 250 '' ; var zflag_sz= '' 9 '' ; var zflag_click= '' [ INSERT_CLICK_TRACKER_MACRO ] '' ; [ w1264 ] # # # BEGIN HEAD # # # # Meta Title Unwise to put onus on Facebook to protect users ' data , prevent fake news - Techgoondu Techgoondu Favicon Wordpress functions Ads managed and served by AdPlugg - AdPlugg WordPress Ad Plugin v1.9.1 - https : //www.adplugg.com / AdPlugg Jetpack Site Verification Tags Begin Body Facebook Like Box Header end # logo end # banner end # header Mobile Cellphones Tablets Telecom Media Internet Gaming PC Enterprise Imaging Audio-visual end .menu-navigation end # menu-search end # menu breaking news Grab launches GrabFood delivery service in Singapore , aims to be one-stop app Asia-Pacific organisations could lose US $ 1.75 trillion to cyber threats : Microsoft M1 ’ s new mobile remittance service uses MyInfo digital service Most Singaporeans say they can go cashless for a day : Visa survey MyRepublic to offer mobile services as virtual operator after tie-up with StarHub Hands on : Vivo X21 is first phone with in-screen fingerprint scanner in Singapore end .header-breaking-text end .header-social end # header-breaking end # header-main Wrap Unwise to put onus on Facebook to protect users ’ data , prevent fake news March 23rd , 2018 by Alfred Siew AddThis Button BEGIN AddThis Button END Internet A Facebook login page on a smartphone . PHOTO : Pexels ( Creative Commons ) At one point during a hearing on fake news yesterday , it seemed as if Singapore ’ s Home Affairs Minister K Shanmugam was speaking up for Facebook users . Why hadn ’ t the social media giant come forward earlier to tell users they faced a data breach , he asked a Facebook representative during a three-hour discussion . In reply , the company ’ s vice-president for public policy for Asia-Pacific , Simon Milner , admitted it had made a wrong call and should have let people know . Head honcho Mark Zuckerberg had also “ owned that decision ” and pledged to better secure users ’ data , he added . The to-and-fro before the Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods comes right smack in the middle of the worst scandal yet for Facebook . It finally owned up to a serious data breach last week , as The New York Times and The Guardian reported how a third-party data firm , Cambridge Analytica , had tricked users into sharing data and misused it to help swing the United States presidential election in Donald Trump ’ s favour in 2016 . As much as that has got to do with data protection , the incident shows how difficult it is to trust or force Facebook to root out instances of fake news or players that rely on its algorithms to target users . Facebook today is an advertising medium that is more powerful than it wants to admit . That ’ s because it is struggling to prevent its platform from being weaponised for political ends . A person who hates a political party can be targeted with messages of how unfair he has been treated in the current system . These “ dark Facebook posts ” – items only seen by those selected as part of an ad campaign – are effective to a fault because they play up existing prejudices with laser precision . The same can be said of a person with strong , patriotic feelings , who can be counted on to vote another way . Keep blasting images of how great the country is doing and remind him that change is dangerous . The crux of the issue is whether Facebook did enough to curb outfits such as Cambridge Analytica , a political consultancy linked with Trump . Under the glare of daylight , the social media giant now admits it did not . But what else could it have done ? It said it had suspended the offending company ’ s efforts but did not check if Cambridge Analytica had deleted the data collected earlier . Well , the data was later misused . For every Cambridge Analytica that is found out , there may be 10 other companies effectively targeting Facebook users by simply making use of all the tools it provides – legitimately . If you dived into your Facebook account settings , you ’ ll be surprised how much data you ’ ve been casually sharing , simply by liking a page or surfing to a site while signed on to your Facebook account . If you hadn ’ t opted out of being a target of advertisers interested in your interests , then you will keep getting targeted by them . This is legitimate , by the way . What Cambridge Analytica did was to mislead some 50 million users and harvest their information without their permission . Perhaps Facebook could have told users earlier their data was in danger of being misused , as Shanmugam suggested . But would it make people quit Facebook or delete their accounts , as many are threatening to do so now ? That ’ s unlikely , because users are so invested in the social network . There are many guides to reduce one ’ s exposure by sharing less with advertisers , but to leave Facebook altogether is hard because of the network effects it has accrued . Even for governments that are seeking to use legislation to rein in fake news , Facebook is a double-edged sword . It is a tool they themselves use to reach out to citizens . Clearly , Facebook can no longer claim to be the innocent social network it once was , say , a decade ago . Today , its powerful analytical tools , plus its dominant position , mean it can not simply say that it ’ s a neutral party to what people do on its platform . It has a “ moral obligation ” , as its regional representative said yesterday . Some countries , such as Germany , have forced Facebook to play a more active role in combating fake news , say , by rooting out fake accounts spreading it . Equally , there is danger in depending on a commercial entity to be the arbiter of truth . Not only is it limited in its ability to control information and accounts perfectly , it also does not have to answer to its users who have few alternatives today . There is no better way forward than for users to be aware of what they are sharing and to discern real news from the fake themselves . Ultimately , they have to take the lead . Whether this is through education about sharing one ’ s data , or boosting media literacy to spot fake news , the responsibility has to lie with users . Governments can and should compel social media firms to be more transparent about their practices and whatever new tools they deploy for advertisers . These are just not clear enough today . At the same time , making it too onerous for Facebook also makes the effort impractical . Neither should the social media firm be depended on to root out fake news , because it can not do so all the time . In yesterday ’ s hearing , Shanmugam also pointed out that Singapore did not have the levers that the United States or European government might have on Facebook to compel it to take on this role . That should be the starting point when discussing how much the likes of Facebook can and should do here . With their network and reach , they have to do more , but the rest depends on users learning to be savvy . CORRECTION at 23/03/2018 , 7:23pm : In an earlier version of the article , we misspelt Simon Milner ’ s name . This has been corrected . We are sorry for the error . AddThis Advanced Settings above via filter on the_content AddThis Advanced Settings below via filter on the_content AddThis Advanced Settings generic via filter on the_content AddThis Share Buttons above via filter on the_content AddThis Share Buttons below via filter on the_content AddThis Share Buttons generic via filter on the_content Cambridge Analytica data protection facebook fake news Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods Singapore Parliament think AddThis Button BEGIN AddThis Button END end .single-archive One Comment Trebor Erebut .comment-author .vcard March 28 , 2018 at 7:01 pm Help swing the votes ? Are you serious ? Are Americans so gullible ? Or are you so anti-Trump that you want to think that those who voted for Trump are ediots ? Ever stopped to think about those who voted for Hillary ? Are they somehow immune from such influences ? Reply .reply # comment etc ... # comment- # # Leave a Reply Cancel reply This site uses Akismet to reduce spam . Learn how your comment data is processed . end # comments end .blog ( left & full & right ) TECHGOONDU HIGHLIGHTS Recent Posts Enterprise Canada making its imprint on global AI map For many years , the Canadian government has poured billions of dollars to fund AI research and development including setting up ... end .widget-blog-two-cover Goondu review : Is the Honor 10 a budget Huawei P20 ? ... Grab launches GrabFood delivery service in Singapore , a ... Same same but different , the Huawei Mate RS AR , VR spending in Asia-Pacific to soar 141 per cent to ... end .widget-blog-two-art end .widget-blog-two OUR SPONSORS Sidebar box ad 2 Sidebar box ad end .sidebar-right end .blog-fixed end # wrap Footer TECHGOONDU Techgoondu.com is published by Goondu Media Pte Ltd , a company registered and based in Singapore . Started in June 2008 by technology journalists and ex-journalists in Singapore who share a common love for all things geeky and digital , the site now includes segments on personal computing , enterprise IT and Internet culture . . . POWERED BY READYSPACE The Techgoondu website is powered by and managed by Readyspace Cloud Services . end .footer-col POPULAR NOW 4G android Apple asus cloud computing cyber security Dell diy fibre broadband Google HP HTC Huawei IDA Intel iPhone Lenovo LG LTE M1 Microsoft Nokia price and availability Q & A review samsung Singapore Singapore price Singapore price and availability SingTel Sony StarHub think Windows 8 Xiaomi end .footer-col RECENT COMMENTS on Telco veteran Peter Kaliaropoulos is new StarHub CEO on Hands on : Vivo X21 is first phone with in-screen fingerprint scanner in Singapore on Top in broadband speeds now , Singapore has moved from laggard to leader on Top in broadband speeds now , Singapore has moved from laggard to leader on Goondu review : Xiaomi Redmi Note 4 end .footer-col end .footer-row fixed end # footer © 2017 Techgoondu . All Rights Reserved . About Us // Contact // Advertise with us // Terms of use // Privacy policy end .footer-bottom-copyright end .footer-bottom-social end .footer-row end .footer-bottom Google analytics UA-8246182-4 [ w1265 ] Steve Bannon blames Brits educated at Oxford and Cambridge for the Facebook data scandal , Business Insider - Business Insider Singapore mobile menu top section socials close button login section menu section [ Custom ] Trending [ Custom ] News [ Dynamic Posts ] Tech Insider [ Dynamic Posts ] Finance [ Dynamic Posts ] Career [ Dynamic Posts ] Life [ Dynamic Posts ] Video [ Dynamic Posts ] [ Custom ] register/login section close button Header style 3 BI Intelligence Events LOGIN MODAL Edition  Choose Edition : Singapore Malaysia United States United Kingdom Deutschland Australia India Poland Nordic Netherlands France Italy Japan España South Africa UberMenu [ Configuration : main ] [ Theme Loc : header-menu ] [ Integration : api ] WordPress Popular Posts Plugin v4.0.0 [ PHP ] [ daily ] [ views ] [ custom ] End WordPress Popular Posts Plugin v4.0.0 begin Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 43081 ] count [ 4 ] end Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 43081 ] begin Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44071 ] count [ 4 ] end Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44071 ] begin Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44073 ] count [ 4 ] end Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44073 ] begin Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44075 ] count [ 4 ] end Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44075 ] begin Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44408 ] count [ 4 ] end Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44408 ] begin Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44410 ] count [ 4 ] end Dynamic Posts : [ Dynamic Posts ] ID [ 44410 ] End UberMenu /5908/BI_SG/lb1/bi/sg Steve Bannon blames Brits educated at Oxford and Cambridge for the Facebook data scandal By Shona Ghosh , Business Insider US - Go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools Steve Bannon has denied any knowledge of Cambridge Analytica allegedly using illegitimate Facebook data to target US voters , according to The Guardian . Bannon used to sit on Cambridge Analytica ’ s board , but said any “ dirty tricks ” were down to the Oxbridge-educated Brits who ran its parent firm SCL Group . As Bannon made his comments , AP reported that special counsel Robert Mueller would probe Cambridge Analytica ’ s ties to the Trump campaign . Steve Bannon , the former White House chief strategist and Breitbart executive chairman , has claimed he had nothing to do with any alleged use of Facebook data to win the US presidential election for Donald Trump in 2016 . Bannon was referring to the role of political research firm Cambridge Analytica ( CA ) in helping Trump win the presidency in November that year . The firm allegedly used data illegitimately scraped from Facebook to build “ psychographic ” profiles of American voters and target them with propaganda . Those allegations were first reported by The Observer . /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg Bannon , who was in charge of Trump ’ s campaign at the time , is now pleading innocence at its use of illicitly gained data , according to The Guardian . /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg He told a conference in New York on Thursday that any “ dirty tricks ” were down to SCL Group , Cambridge Analytica ’ s parent firm , and the British men who ran it . He said : “ That ’ s SCL [ the parent company ] … that ’ s all staffed by British guys from Oxford and Cambridge . CA is the data scientists – the Guardian and the Observer tell you that in about the 10th paragraph. ” Cambridge Analytica ’ s key executives include Eton-educated CEO Alexander Nix , now suspended , Cambridge-educated managing director Mark Turnbull , and Cambridge-educated chief data officer Alexander Tayler . caption The now-suspended CEO of Cambridge Analytica , Alexander Nix . source Pedro Nunes/Reuters According to the newspaper , Bannon also said : “ I didn ’ t even know anything about the Facebook mining. ” Bannon once sat on Cambridge Analytica ’ s executive board through his connections to its pro-Trump primary funder , the hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer . Bannon has even said that he named Cambridge Analytica . Reports in 2016 suggested the Trump campaign paid Cambridge Analytica $ 5 million for its services in September alone that year , a significant increase from the $ 250,000 it paid one month earlier . It isn ’ t clear what impact this had on Trump ’ s campaign , but Cambridge Analytica boasted about its role in his success in an undercover video broadcast by Channel 4 this week . Around the time Bannon was denying his knowledge of Cambridge Analytica ’ s alleged activities , AP reported that special counsel Robert Mueller would investigate the firm ’ s ties to Trump ’ s campaign as part of his ongoing probe into Russian election interference . Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica scandal Facebook accounts Steve Bannon Tech UK /.post /5908/BI_SG/imu2/bi/sg WordPress Popular Posts Plugin v4.0.0 [ PHP ] [ daily ] [ views ] [ custom ] What wearing a $ 6,000 Rolex for a month taught a 24-year-old about wealth and status J.R. Smith commits horrible blunder in final seconds of Game 1 of the Finals by seeming to forget the score and dribbling out the clock with the game ... 2 forms of exercise are the best way to stave off the effects of aging . Here ’ s how to incorporate them into your life . Kim Jong Un reportedly cried over North Korea ’ s bad economy , and it could show he ’ s ready to cave to Trump A Harvard psychologist says people judge you based on 2 criteria when they first meet you End WordPress Popular Posts Plugin v4.0.0 /.td-pb-row /.td-container /.td-main-content-wrap Instagram Footer * Copyright © 2017 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved . Advertise with us SPH Digital Business Insider International Editions : US UK DE AUS IN MY SG PL SE NL FR IT JP España South Africa Sub Footer close td-outer-wrap Go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools /5908/BI_SG/topoverlay/bi/sg Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Theme : Newspaper by tagDiv.com 2017 Version : 7.8 ( rara ) Deploy mode : deploy uid : 5b1217ffd5948 Custom css form theme panel JS generated by theme [ w1266 ] Facebook dropped from Australian Ethical ETF after data breach react-empty : 5 Yahoo Search Search react-text : 10 News /react-text react-text : 45 Singapore /react-text react-text : 48 Malaysia /react-text react-text : 51 World /react-text react-text : 54 Videos /react-text react-text : 57 Sports /react-text react-text : 60 Autos /react-text react-text : 63 Weather /react-text react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 Facebook dropped from Australian Ethical ETF after data breach 23 March 2018 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 A figurine is seen in front of the Facebook logo in this illustration taken March 20 , 2018 . REUTERS/Dado Ruvic ( Reuters ) - Facebook Inc will be removed from the Australia-based BetaShares Global Sustainability Leaders Exchange Traded Fund ( ETHI ) due to recent `` controversies '' , its Responsible Investment Committee ( RIC ) said on Friday . `` The company has in recent times been the subject of a number of controversies and reputational issues , '' the committee said in a statement https : //www.betashares.com.au/files/ETHI/MEDIA-STATEMENT-ETHI-Removal-of-Facebook_March2018.pdf . The world 's largest social media network , with more than 2 billion monthly active users , is under scrutiny following allegations that British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed users ' data and helped influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election . Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg apologized on Wednesday , five days after the scandal broke , and promised to restrict developers ' access to such information . The company , which has lost more than $ 50 billion in market value since allegations this week , ended over 2.6 percent lower on Thursday . Facebook comprises 3.9 percent of the ETHI portfolio , the Australian ethical fund that has $ 170 million in funds under management . ( Reporting by Vishal Sridhar in Bengaluru ; Editing by Stephen Coates ) react-empty : 2 What to read next AFP News Shares Investment Yahoo News Singapore Associated Press WOWtv react-empty : 82 AFP News Malay Mail WOWtv Associated Press Yahoo News Singapore AFP News Associated Press WOWtv Malay Mail The Guardian Yahoo News Singapore AFP News WOWtv Reuters South China Morning Post Digital Spy AFP News WOWtv EdgeProp Yahoo News Singapore react-empty : 62 react-empty : 65 react-empty : 66 bf1-sdarlaws-001.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 04:07:29 UTC 2018 [ w1267 ] News sites ' paywall dilemma react-empty : 5 Yahoo Search Search react-text : 10 News /react-text react-text : 45 Singapore /react-text react-text : 48 Malaysia /react-text react-text : 51 World /react-text react-text : 54 Videos /react-text react-text : 57 Sports /react-text react-text : 60 Autos /react-text react-text : 63 Weather /react-text react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 News sites have embraced paywalls that alienate readers Rob Pegoraro Contributing Editor 23 March 2018 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 The New York Times said that its digital subscriptions are now bringing in more revenue than online ads . ( Photo credit : KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images ) Subscriptions as an ad antidote Subscription fatigue is real A boundless beta test Readers need choices Email Rob at rob @ robpegoraro.com ; follow him on Twitter at @ robpegoraro . react-empty : 2 What to read next Associated Press Associated Press Associated Press Yahoo News Singapore Associated Press WOWtv react-empty : 94 AFP News Associated Press WOWtv Associated Press Yahoo News Singapore AFP News e27 WOWtv Malay Mail The Guardian Yahoo News Singapore WOWtv Reuters South China Morning Post Digital Spy WOWtv EdgeProp Yahoo News Singapore react-empty : 62 react-empty : 65 react-empty : 66 bf1-sdarlaws-001.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 04:07:30 UTC 2018 [ w1268 ] class= '' no-js lt-ie9 is-ie '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' no-js is-ie '' [ w1269 ] Elon Musk joins # DeleteFacebook movement , deletes Tesla and SpaceX 's Facebook pages HOME SOCIALSTORY HERSTORY GERMANY DEUTSCHLAND YS TV LANGUAGES हिन्दी বাংলা తెలుగు தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ मराठी മലയാളം ଓଡିଆ ગુજરાતી ਪੰਜਾਬੀ অসমীয়া اردو MYSTORY YS WEEKENDER MORE Techie Tuesdays App Fridays Daily Capsule Startups In-depth Funding & Investments YS Decodes Resources Expert Opinion The Bitcoin Story Demonetisation Looking East Events Home Login/Create Account MyStory HerStory SocialStory Germany Deutschland YS TV Languages हिन्दी বাংলা తెలుగు தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ मराठी മലയാളം ଓଡିଆ ગુજરાતી ਪੰਜਾਬੀ অসমীয়া اردو Sections Top Categories Techie Tuesdays App Fridays Daily Capsule Startups In-depth Funding & Investments YS Decodes Resources Expert Opinion The Bitcoin Story Demonetisation Looking East Newsletters YS Weekender Events About Us Careers Contact Us FAQs Profiles Elon Musk joins # DeleteFacebook movement , deletes Tesla and SpaceX 's Facebook pages 'Looks lame anyway ' , says Elon Musk before he deletes the Tesla and SpaceX pages on a Twitter challenge as the # DeleteFacebook movement gathers steam . Soon after revelations that Cambridge Analytica , a New York-based data mining and analysis company , received personal details of over 50 million Facebook user accounts and used them to push targeted advertising to sway and influence public opinion , Brian Acton , WhatsApp Co-founder and former Facebook employee , voiced his views with a tweet https : //twitter.com/elonmusk/status/977209817012977665 Earlier today , Elon Musk , CEO of Tesla and SpaceX , responded to Brian Acton 's tweet and playfully asked , “ What 's Facebook ? ” . After some light-hearted banter things got quite serious as one Twitter user dared Musk to delete SpaceX 's Facebook page , if “ he was the man ” . https : //twitter.com/elonmusk/status/977211923719598086 Another user pointed Musk to Tesla 's Facebook page and dared him to delete that too . https : //twitter.com/elonmusk/status/977216157080993793 Shortly thereafter , Tesla and SpaceX ' s Facebook pages were deleted as promised . Musk also responded to another Twitter user 's comment regarding his own and his companies ’ prolific use of Instagram , also owned by Facebook . Musk tweeted that Instagram was “ borderline ” since Facebook 's “ influence is slowly creeping in ” . Prior to their deletion , the SpaceX and Tesla Facebook pages had over 2.6 million likes and follows , and high engagement rates . It is n't apparent whether deleting the pages was a well-thought-out plan or a spur-of-the-moment reaction to requests on Twitter . But it will be interesting to see if this will actually have much impact on SpaceX and Tesla 's bottom line or their respective brands . Both companies have a fairly large offline presence and their own company websites . The impact of Facebook on businesses For many years now , Facebook has been the go-to marketing platform for startups and companies of all sizes . It has also long been a primary source of traffic for media companies . It functions as a medium to drive engagement with current and future customers , and also place targeted ads at users who would likely be interested in that brand . While Elon Musk has now taken a firm stand and rallied his support behind the # DeleteFacebook campaign , not too many companies may follow suit immediately as it could likely affect their bottom line directly . Apart from missing an effective online presence , SpaceX and Tesla will likely not face any significant losses directly as a result of Musk 's recent move . Tesla vehicles have enough market demand already and SpaceX is n't a consumer-facing business yet , and relies on large enterprise clients and partners like NASA . Mark Zuckerberg is expected to address the Cambridge Analytica issue and its aftermath in a weekly Q & A session with Facebook employees . It will be interesting to see if he addresses the # DeleteFacebook campaign that has now gained steam from two very influential voices in the tech and startup ecosystem . Report an Issue Author Harshith Mallya or Facebook Related Topics DeleteFacebook Elon Musk delete facebook Latest Newsletter Subscriptions You have successfully subscribed to our newsletters . Subscribe Trending Looking for a job ? Find one on our Job Platform See Jobs Latest Anouncements Trending Looking for a job ? Find one on our Job Platform See Jobs Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Work with us Code of Conduct Events Disclaimers About Us The Team Contact Us FAQs Social Built with love in India Report an issue Latest compiled and minified JavaScript [ w1270 ] [ if IE 8 ] class= '' no-js lt-ie9 is-ie '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' no-js is-ie '' [ w1271 ] Is there more to Shanmugam ’ s ‘ interrogation ’ of Facebook exec than what meets the eye ? The Independent mobile menu top section socials close button login section menu section Latest News Politics Sense And Nonsense People ’ s Action Party Singapore Democratic Party Workers ’ Party Business & Economy Budget 2018 Central Provident Fund Media Watch Select Committee on DOF Sports register/login section close button Header style 7 Singapore US & World News Finance LOGIN MODAL Latest News Politics Sense And Nonsense People ’ s Action Party Singapore Democratic Party Workers ’ Party Business & Economy Budget 2018 Central Provident Fund Media Watch Select Committee on DOF Sports Search Is there more to Shanmugam ’ s ‘ interrogation ’ of Facebook exec than what meets the eye ? By Jewel Philemon - Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter tweet A Singaporean writer has offered that Law and Home Affairs Minister K. Shanmugam ’ s 3-hour questioning of a local Facebook executive might just be a smokescreen . The writer comments come as videos of the heated exchange between the Minister and Facebook ’ s vice-president of public policy for Asia-Pacific , Simon Milner has been making rounds online . Milner , who had been representing the social media giant in front of the Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods on Thursday , found himself in a verbal tussle with the Law Minister who took his organisation to task for the recent data breach scandal that has gripped headlines . News broke last weekend that a data firm , Cambridge Analytica , with ties to US politicians reportedly accessed information from about 50 million Facebook users without their knowledge nor authorisation . The data harvest occurred as around 270,000 people took a personality quiz online that gave a Cambridge University professor access to their data and their Facebook friends ’ data . This information , which was initially collected for academic purposes according to Facebook , was later transferred to third parties in violation of Facebook policies . A generated by theme end A Some netizens have praised the Law Minister for pressing the Facebook representative to answer for the data breach as videos such as the one below have been circulating online : Others , however , have felt that there is more to this “ interrogation ” than meets the eye . One such voice , writer Sudhir Thomas Vadaketh , noted that while some videos online seem to suggest that the government is taking a tough stance against Facebook , “ There is a different interpretation : two bedfellows trying to pretend that they never made out . One side spent money on targeted political marketing , the other happily sold your data. ” Sudhir added : “ Do we know this for sure ? No , but it seems highly likely that the PAP and of course Gov.sg , with its numerous sponsored videos telling you how wonderful life is in Singapore , have done so . Don ’ t forget that the latter spends your own tax dollars in order to advertise to you . ( There are of course good informational reasons for policy advertising . ) ” Pointing to news that one of several hopefuls tipped to be fielded as a People ’ s Action Party candidate in the next General Election is a top executive at Facebook , Sudhir wrote : “ The PAP has a long history of surreptitious political marketing online , for instance the team of anonymous bloggers under politician Baey Yam Keng . There is also some indication that it is aiming to recruit Facebook executives into its ranks . In today ’ s world if anybody from a data-rich tech firm enters politics…that should really worry you . “ Given the PAP ’ s dominance here , it is easy for this to descend into a partisan comment . It shouldn ’ t . Singaporeans and citizens everywhere , really , should demand much more transparency from all political parties about their online , targeted , psychographic political marketing . “ Political marketing has existed since forever , but there is something different about today ’ s beast . In a recent piece The New Yorker says “ ..the ethical difference between outright electoral corruption and psychographics is largely a matter of degree. ” “ So instead of admiring Shanmugam ’ s questions , Singaporeans should be demanding that he , Sylvia Lim , Chee Soon Juan and all our other political leaders start providing us with much more information about these activities . “ The very essence of public discourse is under threat. ” Another writer , Daniel Yap who was one of the editors at the now-defunct socio-political website The Middle Ground , seemed to echo Sudhir ’ s views and opined : “ FB has made our world , and our politics and governance , more connected yet less transparent. ” Netizens point out that potential PAP candidate is Facebook senior executive as FB posts mysteriously disappear Facebook Twitter tweet Maid suffers severe burns after using her own body to shield infant in Sentosa Cove yatch fire Former TRS editor who now runs ramen stall “ terribly disappointed ” that PAP Policy Forum holds “ unfair ” views about him , even after jail term /.post Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 2:59 am It ’ s now who is the most evil ones here Amy March 24 , 2018 at 12:18 pm Both sides can not be trusted . Political snake + data selling snake . Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 9:32 pm Businesses have the legislation to check on them , so who is checking the PAP government ? # comment- # # .children # comment- # # .children # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:00 am I was distracted by all the intellectual gravitas on display , or was it just the reflection off shiny heads ? Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 12:19 pm Never mind just continue voting for Pap # comment- # # .children # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 11:11 am One has learnt a thing or two from the Americans : No business like show business . All the talk on fake news . The end line was written before the display . Just like asking the take on casinos . 10 out of 10 may have said no . The mind was made up . A public broadcast . Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 1:10 pm Last year , on my land line , gave time to 3 ( government ) surveys . Attended RC sessions on up-grading . Displayed at lift , several months and counting , ask for feedback . Revamp of government feedback Agency . Wrote to PMO ’ s office , gave suggestions . Will they listen ? # comment- # # .children # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:12 am Just Look at the once notorious KMT now in ROC precisely reflect the faith of any notorious political parties shall be suffering in time to come . Time is not on their side for sure . # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:13 am Both are snakes . Facebook is not that innocent . The fallout from the failure of the global elites ( Illuminati ? ) to install their puppet Hillary continues . Why the sudden worldwide mainstream media-orchestrated attack on Cambridge Analytica and dragging Facebook through the mud ? Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 12:18 pm Why ? Must Facebook be innocent than can stand up to the government ? What kind of criteria is that ? # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 9:39 pm Facebook is a business , there are competitions , a user at least have a choice not to use their platform . What about a government that lied and cheated ? The choice is taken away . The state organs are used for gerrymandering , used for silencing critics and use for milking money . These have no comparisons against a private enterprise . # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:19 pm Grace Yu Well that depends . Facebook has proven that it can choose to cop out if it wants to . If the deal is good , it may support the very government you hate . # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 5:24 pm Samantha Tan well don ’ t jump the gun so fast . I don ’ t hate the government ; I don ’ t subscribe to “ ownself check ownself ” unlike diehard fans like you . More and more Singaporeans want more representatives from different parties to rep different viewpoints and voices and to provide some checks and balances . As for you just keep voting for them ! # comment- # # Anonymous March 25 , 2018 at 12:42 am Grace Yu check out my posts in the other fb pages . Diehard fan ? Nah , just cynical . # comment- # # Anonymous March 25 , 2018 at 1:28 am Samantha Tan cynical but still afraid to give non-PAP parties a chance . You are responsible for your cynicism – you should know absolute power corrupts and you keep giving them that power # comment- # # Anonymous March 25 , 2018 at 1:33 am Grace Yu you are so wrong . Like I said , read my other posts on the other FB pages . # comment- # # .children # comment- # # deletefaceboook March 24 , 2018 at 11:17 am FB is being put on trial in every country where there are persecution and possibly genocide against minority groups such as Muslim like in Sri Lanka and Myanmar . In Sri Lanka the govt has the presence of mind to ban social media for a week and to impose curfews in order to bring back public order and in the process save many Muslims ’ property and life . Between fake news and using user ’ s psychographic data harvested from FB to swing elections – I am not sure which one is worse . If you love your neighbours and friends who are minorities , if your love democracy and humanity – you should ask for FB to be regulated like any other media as they are the perfect platform for preachers of hate and prejudice to find a virtual congregation as everyone is using pseudonyms and is anonymous and untraceable . FB collection of user data is also perfect for election hacking as you can hack into the minds of FB users during an election and tap into their fears and neuroticism to make them vote in a certain way . HOLIERTHANTHOU March 24 , 2018 at 11:28 am You must be kidding . You really think FB has so much power ? You are more naive than I thought . All of you are complicit to murder and election rigging because you use FB because it is cheap and free . YOU ARE A CHEAP SKATE & A SUSPECT . By clicking LIKE , commenting and sharing fake news and hate speeches you are as much an accomplice . YOU volunteer your personal information to FB and agree to all its policies – so that they can use it in whatever manner it like . Get off your high horse – you are too cheap to pay for a good service and now you want to complain about how bad a FREE service is ? Come on there is NO FREE LUNCH . The day you join FB you already know that YOU ARE THE MERCHANDISE . THEY ARE GOING TO SELL YOUR PERSONAL DATA TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER . This was all done with your permission . Amen ! # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 10:05 pm One of the key reasons that Facebook was put on trial in some countries is because it provided a platform that negates the monopoly of information that many governments traditionally have . There is almost no intermediaries that could come in between the source and receiver of that information . This can be dual edge sword . While it provides an avenue for alternative legitimate views to be aired , the platform could also be abused by falsehood perpetuators , like a dictatorship . However openness and transparency will allow netizens to self regulate and police against such falsehoods . # comment- # # .children # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:25 am Come on FB…..bring out the receipts ! ! ! # comment- # # HOLIERTHANTHOU March 24 , 2018 at 11:32 am You must be kidding . You really think FB has so much power ? You are more naive than I thought . All of you are complicit to murder and election rigging because you use FB because it is cheap and free . YOU ARE A CHEAP SKATE & A SUSPECT . By clicking LIKE , commenting and sharing fake news and hate speeches you are as much an accomplice . YOU volunteer your personal information to FB and agree to all its policies – so that they can use it in whatever manner it like . Get off your high horse – you are too cheap to pay for a good service and now you want to complain about how bad a FREE service is ? Come on there is NO FREE LUNCH . The day you join FB you already know that YOU ARE THE MERCHANDISE . THEY ARE GOING TO SELL YOUR PERSONAL DATA TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER . This was all done with your permission . Amen ! # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:35 am Have the writers attended Senate Hearing in the US before ? You will be grilled the same and even worse . Come on ! Wise up ! I am concerned about the loss of freedom of speech too ! But some writers just don ’ t mature up and just yakety-yak … . # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 4:02 am A win-win propaganda campaign and some low level entertainment for the public , there is little more to this than smoke and mirrors . # comment- # # Responsive Ad - TISG Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 4:42 am And paid for by some politicians hoping to have a better idea how to manipulate people ’ s minds . After all , the best kind of propaganda is one that makes you think you came to that conclusion yourself . Yet sadly , it ’ s failing to gain them the support they think they will by manipulating feelings . # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 5:00 am Arbuthennnnn… ! ! ! # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 5:03 am sham should work in cid as interrogator rather than lor minister . He is lousy lor minister # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 6:21 am If the Russians ( allegedly ) did it , why not any other authoritarian state , especially one where internet penetration is so high Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 4:47 pm That is why Putin and Xi got the 70 % support and our regime is following Putin footprints . # comment- # # .children # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 4:43 pm When a king cobra snake , internet squad rattlesnake and a pappies viper snake fight , who can survive to take over the dragon Loong snake # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 10:01 am IMHO . All the Selective Committee , mainly the questioner , needed to do is to corner & receive a “ YES ” from all SMPs ; or from at least one to start with , that they agreed that falsehoods online are dangerous & agree with the minister to the legislation of online content on their platforms , then the censorship steamroller will be activated asap . The wicked job to regulate free cyberspace is done . # nogovermentincyberspaceyet # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 12:23 pm Simi si touch stance ? # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 12:26 pm Look at all the cynics here ? When there are people standing up to the government , the intelligent people become sceptical . Or do they prefer these tech companies to quietly nod their heads and concede to the powers-to-be ? No wonder after Roy , no one bothers to stand up anymore , it is a thankless job and the people you are fighting for ‘ throw stones ’ at you . So clever are some Singaporeans . They really deserve the government . They can ’ t wait to be muzzled ! Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 9:50 pm This is just another fake muslim presidency wayang . The same old ploy , after that draconian laws for spoken truths but treated like fake news to the evil PAP regime helmed by a dishonorable clown . The sham adulterer stooge is schemingly plotting to silence all concerned citizens voicing out the huge mess that PAP has caused to this country . # comment- # # .children # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 3:00 pm Trial balloon … ? # comment- # # Anonymous March 24 , 2018 at 11:54 pm “ DEEP STATE* HURR DURR # comment- # # Responsive Ad - TISG Anonymous March 25 , 2018 at 12:48 pm You don ’ t have to help the 70 % , they like to sit on the fence , when they see who is stronger they jump over . Let them reap their own actions # comment- # # Anonymous March 26 , 2018 at 2:10 am Dearest Mr Minister K Shanmugam ’ s , sometime you have to learn something in life and that is “ TRUTH HURTS ” and “ Shame the Devil with Truth ” and therefore it is because most of the posting are true and that you and your party memeber are embarking the Law on FalseHOOD and your own Party by itself is the Root to making false hood which you know very well the person Appointed in this Panel as Chairman is Charles Cheong and Root to Falsehood in the last election whereby he Mr Charles Cheong DESERVE ppl to think the town council lost of $ 22.5 million . OMG how STUPID can you all be to PUT that Clown as your Panel Chairman “ Look at him on that Panel and his sly Face is like a chinese saying Smiling Tiger ” The Chinese expression “ smiling face tiger ” ( 笑面虎 ) is defined in English at one website as “ an outwardly kind but inwardly cruel person ” . More broadly it doesn ’ t need to refer to someone who is actually positively cruel . You guys create 2 laws to protect the PAP should they have their down FALL : 1 . What is Personal Data ? Personal data refers to data , whether true or not , about an individual who can be identified from that data ; or from that data and other information to which the organisation has or is likely to have access . Personal data in Singapore is protected under the Personal Data Protection Act 2012 ( PDPA ) . 2. soon another Law deliberate online falsehoods , which can cross borders , spread rapidly and have serious , sometimes irreversible , consequences . They the PAP create this in order to protect their data/information should they loose power in GRC/Single Ward and also should they loose foothold as Government and doesn ’ t want anyone to know their DIRTY Laundry that the FACTS…Every Singaporean should know FULL well that our existing Laws are good enough to even cover for those “ New Law they ( PAP ) are enacting to protect not just themselve but their Cronies and families and friends . Don ’ t believe me just do your own homework well and I says again the Chairman for Falsehood himself is bad enough . Rumours = Falsehood = Lies = Same Meaning lah Clown # comment- # # Anonymous March 26 , 2018 at 6:53 pm Did Shanmugam ’ s ask the white facebook exec . to say “ SORRY ” . Grace Fu aka the fool should have been the one doing the questioning . Why is the PAP govt . in white uniform afraid of white people. ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? # comment- # # Responsive Ad - TISG Comments are closed . /.content Subscribe to TISG notifications A generated by theme end A BEGIN JS TAG - The Independent ROS MREC SG - DO NOT MODIFY END TAG Shangri-la dialogue : A solution to SCS conflict needed The U.S. news network CNBC reported on May 2 , 2018 , that China had installed anti-ship cruise missiles and surface-to-air missile systems on three features ... ./td-block-span12 ./block China no longer regards Singapore as a friend : pro-Beijing newspaper Singapore Prime Minister 's absence from the One Belt One Road forum held in China earlier in May is `` a watershed moment in regional affairs ... ./td-block-span12 ./block Falsehoods , Sandy Hook and suing Alex Jones Why Florida Democrats can ’ t count on the so-called ‘ black vote ’ Blood in your veins is not blue – here ’ s why it ’ s always red Why Puerto Rico ’ s death toll from Hurricane Maria is so much higher than officials thought Deportado dos veces , este hombre lucha para ayudar a la supervivencia de su familia Immigration agents X-raying migrants to determine age isn ’ t just illegal , it ’ s a misuse of science GLS at Dairy Farm Road poised to be another chart topper SERS identifies 3 blocks in Macpherson to be replaced JTC launches three sites under Industrial Government Land Sales programme Subscribe to TISG notifications /.td-pb-row /.td-container /.td-main-content-wrap Instagram Footer A generated by theme end A Contact us : news @ theindependent.sg Sub Footer About Us Join Us T & Cs FAQ © The Independent Singapore close td-outer-wrap Theme : Newspaper by tagDiv 2016 Version : 7.6.1 ( rara ) Deploy mode : deploy uid : 5b121809b65e5 JS generated by theme Performance optimized by W3 Total Cache . Learn more : https : //www.w3-edge.com/products/ Content Delivery Network via Amazon Web Services : S3 : media.theindependent.sg Served from : localhost @ 2018-06-02 12:07:37 by W3 Total Cache [ w1272 ] mobile menu top section socials close button login section menu section Hindi Business India Andaman and Nicobar Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh Chhattisgarh Daman and Diu Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand karnataka Kashmir Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Promotional Post Puducherry Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Politics World Sports Entertainment Tech & Gadgets Blog More Culture Education In Pictures Interview Science Society Technology Social Media Buzz Janta Ka Conclave register/login section close button Header style 5 LOGIN MODAL Hindi Business India All Andaman and Nicobar Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh Chhattisgarh Daman and Diu Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand karnataka Kashmir Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Promotional Post Puducherry Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim India ‘ Sita was a test-tube baby ’ comments earn Yogi Adityanath ’ s deputy public… India Kerala Police to confirm if burnt body found by Tamil Nadu… Entertainment Ranbir Kapoor ’ s sister sends bracelet for Alia Bhatt and she can ’ t… Entertainment Farhan Akhtar ’ s sarcastic take on petrol price has trolls seething , shuts… ./block1 Politics World India ABC drops show of Trump-supporter comedian Roseanne Barr for racist tweet , … Goa UK elderly couple forced to return from Goa Airport because they… World Malian immigrant wins million hearts in Paris by saving child ’ s life , … World Donald Trump stopped from blocking people on Twitter , US court rules World UN to launch war crimes probe into massacre of Palestinians by… ./block1 Sports India Sushma Swaraj and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani take to Twitter on… India PM Modi accepts Virat Kohli ’ s fitness challenge India Video : Sourav Ganguly as Pizza Hut delivery boy creates magic for… Sports IPL Women ’ s T20 Challenge : Trailblazers vs Supernovas Live Streaming , Timings , Squads Sports Hockey legend Mansoor Ahmed , whose desperate plea for Indian visa evoked… ./block1 Entertainment Entertainment Ranbir Kapoor ’ s sister sends bracelet for Alia Bhatt and she can ’ t… Entertainment Farhan Akhtar ’ s sarcastic take on petrol price has trolls seething , shuts… Entertainment Top 5 reviews you must read before deciding on watching Veere… Entertainment Actor Arbaaz Khan summoned by Thane police in betting case Entertainment Rs 2 lakh cash award announced by Pravin Togadia ’ s outfit for… ./block1 Tech & Gadgets Blog Blog Lok Sabha By-Election Results : Huge setback for BJP and Narendra Modi… Blog जोकीहाट उपचुनाव : तेजस्वी ने खुद को स्थापित कर नीतीश को सोचने… Blog Rajasthan elections will be BJP ’ s own Waterloo as voters appear to… Blog Bengaluru Diary : There ’ s no anti-incumbency against Siddaramaiah Blog Time of reckoning for voters of Karnataka ./block1 More Culture Education In Pictures Interview Science Society Technology Social Media Buzz Janta Ka Conclave Search India Revealed ! Personal data of 50 lakh ex-servicemen may have been breached , armed forces veteran calls it chilling By JKR Staff - 0 Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter tweet Quick Adsense WordPress Plugin : http : //quickadsense.com/ In a sensational revelation , an RTI reply has indicated that a private vendor previously employed by the ministry of defence may have walked away with the personal data of 50 lakh ex-servicemen . The reply by the MoD , headed by Nirmala Sitharaman , raises several worrying questions in light of the latest reports of Facebook letting users ’ data get compromised from its platform . What ’ s even more alarming is that the key department within the MoD was utterly reluctant to comment on the queries repeatedly raised by an RTI activist , himself an Armed Forces veteran , Commodore ( retd ) Lokesh Batra , for more than three months . In his hard-hitting reminder on 21 March , AK Karn , an under secretary level officer in the MoD , wrote to the MD , Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme ( ECHS ) and the MOD directing the ministry to furnish the details on ‘ report/status on the matter related to Bio-metric/Personal information of ECHS Smart Card held with Private Vendor ’ the same day . Taking a dim view of the delay in reply by the CO , ECHS , Karn also noted , “ Co , ECHS was requested vide D/o ESW ( Ex-servicemen welfare ) aforesaid note dated 16.03.2018 for taking necessary action within three days on the issues raised by Commodore Batra ( Retd ) and apprising this Ministry accordingly . However , after lapsing the three days ’ time , action taken report/status on the above subject is still awaited from CO , ECHS. ” “ It is , therefore , requested that the report/ status on the matter related to Bio-metric/Personal information of ECHS Smart Card , held with ‘ Private Vendor ’ may be furnished to this Ministry by TODAY evening ( 21 March 2018 ) Positively , ” Karn wrote adding that ‘ this may be accorded ‘ TOP PRIORITY. ’ The CO , ECHS , Colonel Rakesh Sharma did not adhere to the deadline issued by Karn and chose to reply only a day later i.e . 22 March . His reply said , “ It is intimated that the system of Smart Card which was in vogue till May 2015 , the biomatric data ( left & right thumb impression only ) of the individual was stored in the Smart Card . ( sic ) ” Quick Adsense WordPress Plugin : http : //quickadsense.com/ JKR Ad Col Sharma then went on to make a stunning confession that the ‘ Smart Card was in the custody of the individual ’ adding that the ECHS could not comment whether the vendor in question may have retained a copy of personal data of 50 lakh ex-servicemen before his contract was terminated by the MoD . Col Sharma wrote , “ No biometric data was stored in the system . The other personal data as per the contract stipulation was handed over to the ECHS on termination of contract . ECHS can not comment whether a copy of the same has been retained by the company or not. ” This stunning admission has sent shock-waves on the potential data breach of five million ex-servicemen . Speaking to Janta Ka Reporter , Commodre ( Retd ) Batra , himself an armed forces veteran , said , “ It is a shocking statement coming out of the CO , ECHS . While the bio-metric data aspect is still questionable and will require study , the following part of his statement is extremely shocking and chilling . ‘ The other personal data as per the contract stipulation was handed over to the ECHS on termination of contract . ECHS can not comment whether a copy of the same has been retained by the company or not. ’ ” The news of potential breach of data involving 50 lakhs of ex-servicemen assumes significance in light of the Cambridge Analytica scandal rocking the political world across USA , Europe and India . Commodore Batra said that the latest admission by the CO , ECHS proved why he chose not to ‘ respond for nearly four months ’ to the officials ’ repeated reminders. ’ Commodore ( Retd ) Batra said , “ Another issue of much concern is the confidentiality clause ( s ) included in the MOU signed with the new vendor to ensure safety of personal and bio-metric data of beneficiaries . In case of breach , what are the penalty clauses included in the contract/MoU. ” The revelation also comes hot on the heels of media reports that Director General of NCC had directed units across India to ask their cadets to compulsorily download Prime Minister Narendra Modi ’ s private mobile app by submitting their personal details including phone numbers and email addresses . Batra said that it was a END THEIA POST SLIDER Quick Adsense WordPress Plugin : http : //quickadsense.com/ Responsive JKR Responsive JKR Responsive JKR Facebook Twitter tweet BJP wins 9th seat in Uttar Pradesh , setback to BSP-SP alliance ‘ मस्जिद को भले ध्वस्त कर दिया गया हो , लेकिन फिर भी वह इबादत की जगह बनी रहेगी ’ /.post RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR India ‘ Sita was a test-tube baby ’ comments earn Yogi Adityanath ’ s deputy public ridicule ./td-related-span4 India Kerala Police to confirm if burnt body found by Tamil Nadu cops is of Jesna ./td-related-span4 Entertainment Ranbir Kapoor ’ s sister sends bracelet for Alia Bhatt and she can ’ t hide her excitement ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid Entertainment Farhan Akhtar ’ s sarcastic take on petrol price has trolls seething , shuts them up brilliantly ./td-related-span4 Entertainment Top 5 reviews you must read before deciding on watching Veere Di Wedding ./td-related-span4 India Anger after security forces crush three Kashmiri civilians under their vehicle in Sringar ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid India Adityanath gets public taunt from BJP MLA after Kairana loss ./td-related-span4 India Video of Union minister Prakash Javdekar criticising ‘ central government ’ on petrol and diesel prices goes viral ./td-related-span4 Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh : At least 8 people killed and 26 injured as bus rolls down a gorge in Shimla ./td-related-span4 ./row-fluid ./block LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply Please enter your comment ! Please enter your name here You have entered an incorrect email address ! Please enter your email address here # respond /.content Ranbir Kapoor ’ s sister sends bracelet for Alia Bhatt and she can ’ t ... 0 Entertainment Alia Bhatt has flaunted a special gift she 's received from Riddhima Kapoor , Ranbir Kapoor 's sister . She went public with her special gift moments after ... ./td-block-span12 Farhan Akhtar ’ s sarcastic take on petrol price has trolls seething , shuts ... 0 Entertainment Actor-director Farhan Akhtar can be as poetic and witty with words as his legendary lyricist Dad Javed Akhtar . The Bollywood 's Milkha Singh has , on ... ./td-block-span12 Top 5 reviews you must read before deciding on watching Veere ... 0 Entertainment The much-awaited multi-starrer Veere Di Wedding was released across India on Friday . The film also marks the comeback of Kareena Kapoor after a long ... ./td-block-span12 Actor Arbaaz Khan summoned by Thane police in betting case 0 Entertainment Actor Arbaaz Khan has reportedly been summoned by the police in Maharashtra in connection with betting in the Indian Premier League ( IPL ) . His name cropped ... ./td-block-span12 Rs 2 lakh cash award announced by Pravin Togadia ’ s outfit for ... 0 Entertainment A local leader of a Hindutva outfit floated by former Vishwa Hindu Praishad 's international president , Pravin Togadia , has announced a cash reward for anyone ... ./td-block-span12 ./block India ‘ Sita was a test-tube baby ’ comments earn Yogi Adityanath ’ s deputy public ... 0 Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma has become an object of public ridicule after he claimed that Sita was a test-tube baby . The ... ./td-block-span12 Kerala Police to confirm if burnt body found by Tamil Nadu ... ./td-block-span12 Ranbir Kapoor ’ s sister sends bracelet for Alia Bhatt and she can ’ t ... ./td-block-span12 Farhan Akhtar ’ s sarcastic take on petrol price has trolls seething , shuts ... ./td-block-span12 Top 5 reviews you must read before deciding on watching Veere ... ./td-block-span12 ./block on Demand grows for criminal action against Madhu Kishwar after Twitter bans hatemongers ’ accounts on After Haryana Police , J & K Police too pulls up Madhu Kishwar for spreading fake news on Thank you for Ramadan , said emotional survivors of London fire on Rajasthan BSER results 2018 : Board of Secondary Education , Rajasthan class 12th results declared @ rajeduboard.rajasthan.gov.in on Rajasthan BSER results 2018 : Board of Secondary Education , Rajasthan class 12th results declared @ rajeduboard.rajasthan.gov.in /.td-pb-row /.td-container /.td-main-content-wrap Instagram Footer Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Jantakareporter.com is an independent news website covering the latest trends from India and around the world . Our team of hard-working and dedicated journalists gather news , verify their authenticity before showcasing them on our website for your consumption . The purpose of launching Jantakareporter.com , a 24×7 multimedia website is to revolutionize the way we gather news . Contact us : contact @ jantakareporter.com Sub Footer © Privacy Policy Copyright 2018 - All Rights Reserved close td-outer-wrap Supreme Court Judges ’ revolt against CJI Misra : It ’ s also to do ... Supreme Court to hear PIL for making ‘ Yoga ’ compulsory for students Theme : Newspaper by tagDiv.com 2017 Version : 7.8.1 ( rara ) Deploy mode : deploy uid : 5b12162acb17f JS generated by theme [ w1273 ] We explain the basics of the Cambridge Analytica controversy [ Video ] react-empty : 5 Yahoo Search Search react-text : 10 News /react-text react-text : 45 Singapore /react-text react-text : 48 Malaysia /react-text react-text : 51 World /react-text react-text : 54 Videos /react-text react-text : 57 Sports /react-text react-text : 60 Autos /react-text react-text : 63 Weather /react-text react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 10 Yahoo Finance answers : What exactly happened at Facebook ? Rick Newman Columnist 23 March 2018 Facebook ’ s ( FB ) stock price has plunged recently—axing $ 50 billion from its market value—following new revelations of data abuse during the 2016 elections . But it wasn ’ t an ordinary hack , with criminals stealing Social Security numbers or credit-card data . Facebook actually gave a third-party researcher permission to access the data in question . What happened next has created a lot of confusion . When we asked our audience what questions they wanted us to answer this week , many pressed for a better explanation of what the heck actually happened at Facebook , and how it might affect ordinary users . Starting with this : What type of information was breached ? Will it hurt anyone financially ? Cambridge Analytica , the research firm that eventually gathered data on as many as 50 million American Facebook users , got a lot of the private information Facebook keeps on its users : the causes , groups and products they “ like , ” their list of Facebook friends , and many of the things they share with friends . The group also administered “ personality quizzes ” that allowed it to build deeper profiles of some users . Cambridge Analytica , which worked for Donald Trump ’ s presidential campaign , was able to manipulate that data in a way that supposedly helped it target ads at Facebook users vulnerable to persuasion during the 2016 elections : Those who might vote for Trump , say , if nudged a certain way , or who might be convinced not to vote for Hillary Clinton . What we don ’ t know is how effective that Facebook campaign was . Did it swing a meaningful number of votes Trump ’ s way ? Or did it mostly just reach people who already knew who they were voting for ? We ’ ll probably never know . Facebook actually allowed an academic researcher to access that data , back in 2015 , thinking it would be used purely for research purposes . What Facebook didn ’ t know is that the researcher then contracted with Cambridge Analytica , essentially using the data for commercial use in a political campaign . Facebook has since tightened its rules and doesn ’ t allow such use of user data . But it does allow advertisers to micro-target Facebookers using mostly everything the social-media giant knows about them . As far as we know , no hackers or criminals got access Facebook users ’ data in this instance . So it shouldn ’ t cause anybody that kind of financial harm . Should CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg step down ? Both have borne heavy criticism for waiting several days to say anything public about the controversy , leaving underlings to explain and defend the company ( which they generally did poorly ) . That was a mistake , but neither exec is likely to be going anywhere , at least not because of this . Zuckerberg controls Facebook ’ s voting shares , giving him an extraordinary degree of control , for a public company . Sandberg is still considered a bright light in Silicon Valley who may have political ambitions . They both seem to understand they have a big problem to solve . Will Facebook ’ s revenues take a hit ? Unclear . One reason the stock is down is because the company could face new regulations and perhaps new lawsuits . That wouldn ’ t necessarily hurt revenue , but it would add to costs and therefore dent net income . The controversy would only hurt revenue if it led more people to leave the platform , fewer to join , and those there to engage less . We ’ ll know more when Facebook reports first-quarter earnings , which is scheduled for May 2 . Will Facebook ’ s stock rally ? It could . Wall Street analysts surveyed by S & P Capital IQ have an average 12-month price target of $ 220 on Facebook shares , which is about 35 % higher than the current price . The joke used to be , will the last person on MySpace please turn out the lights . Will Facebook become just as irrelevant ? Nope . Facebook is here to stay . It ’ s the world ’ s dominant social-media platform by a mile , and don ’ t forget , it also owns Instagram and WhatsApp . There ’ s really nothing like it in terms of scale , ubiquity or stickiness . It also happens to be free to users , so it ’ s not like people will zero it out of their budget . If you use Facebook today , odds are you ’ ll still be using it , one way or another , in 10 or 20 years . Confidential tip line : rickjnewman @ yahoo.com . Encrypted communication available . Read more : The leadership hole at Facebook Why Facebook is suddenly reeling Trump ’ s China tariffs aren ’ t crazy The real reason the NRA wins Government debt is exploding . Here ’ s the danger Rick Newman is the author of four books , including Rebounders : How Winners Pivot from Setback to Success . Follow him on Twitter : @ rickjnewman Follow Yahoo Finance on Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , and LinkedIn react-empty : 2 What to read next AFP News Yahoo News Singapore AFP News WOWtv react-empty : 70 AFP News AFP News WOWtv Associated Press Yahoo News Singapore AFP News Associated Press WOWtv Malay Mail The Guardian Yahoo News Singapore Associated Press WOWtv Reuters South China Morning Post Digital Spy Associated Press WOWtv EdgeProp Yahoo News Singapore react-empty : 62 react-empty : 65 react-empty : 66 bf1-sdarlaws-005.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 04:07:40 UTC 2018 [ w1274 ] From harvesting social media profiles to harvesting nature 's bounty , this founder is using data where it matters HOME SOCIALSTORY HERSTORY GERMANY DEUTSCHLAND YS TV LANGUAGES हिन्दी বাংলা తెలుగు தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ मराठी മലയാളം ଓଡିଆ ગુજરાતી ਪੰਜਾਬੀ অসমীয়া اردو MYSTORY YS WEEKENDER MORE Techie Tuesdays App Fridays Daily Capsule Startups In-depth Funding & Investments YS Decodes Resources Expert Opinion The Bitcoin Story Demonetisation Looking East Events Home Login/Create Account MyStory HerStory SocialStory Germany Deutschland YS TV Languages हिन्दी বাংলা తెలుగు தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ मराठी മലയാളം ଓଡିଆ ગુજરાતી ਪੰਜਾਬੀ অসমীয়া اردو Sections Top Categories Techie Tuesdays App Fridays Daily Capsule Startups In-depth Funding & Investments YS Decodes Resources Expert Opinion The Bitcoin Story Demonetisation Looking East Newsletters YS Weekender Events About Us Careers Contact Us FAQs Profiles From harvesting social media profiles to harvesting nature 's bounty , this founder is using data where it matters Deepak Pareek of MyCrop is using big data for farmers in India and Indonesia to reach bigger markets . At A Glance Startup : Founders : Year it was founded : Where is it based : The problem it solves : Sector : Funding raised : Deepak Pareek Data mining ALSO READ : Meet India ’ s potato king who has raised Rs 25 cr Series-B funding Small farmers , big problems Deepak with MyCrop India team . Business model “ Farmer Mitra Deepak with Farmer Mitras and farmers in Gujarat . Future prospects Deepak with the Indonesia team . Report an Issue Author Dipti Nair Related Topics Bill Gates Artificial Intelligence technology solutions MyCrop India Agriculture Platform Deepak Pareek Latest Newsletter Subscriptions You have successfully subscribed to our newsletters . Subscribe Trending Looking for a job ? Find one on our Job Platform See Jobs Latest Anouncements Trending Looking for a job ? Find one on our Job Platform See Jobs Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Work with us Code of Conduct Events Disclaimers About Us The Team Contact Us FAQs Social Built with love in India Report an issue Latest compiled and minified JavaScript [ w1275 ] BFF feature of Facebook and the truth behind it Catch News Google Analytics code start Google Analytics code end Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code Heat Map Code Heat Map Code informvisitors informvisitors colombia ad colombia ad fork tech fork tech ABC TAG CODE STARTS HERE ENDS HERE Begin comScore Tags Start Visual Website Optimizer Asynchronous Code End Visual Website Optimizer Asynchronous Code Start Alexa Certify Javascript End Alexa Certify Javascript Mobile Header start India Politics Business & Eco International Environment Career Cricket Hockey Football Tennis Others Culture Life & Society Bizarre Social Media Hollywood Bollywood TV Science Technology Gadgets Apps CLOSE India Sports Politics Business international Culture Health SCIENCE & TECH Environment Little Star Cafe State India Sports Politics Business international Culture Health State Introversial ad start Javascript tag Introversial ad start BFF feature of Facebook and the truth behind it 0 SHARES 0 SHARES 0 COMMENTS 0 SHARES 0 SHARES 0 COMMENTS div class= '' full-width '' EXT_CatchNews_Web_ROS_AS_RCMW_EOA2 , position=1 EXT_CatchNews_mWeb_ROS_AS_RCMW_EOA , position=1 begin ZEDO for channel : Catchnews-Reliance-CPC_RON_IN , publisher : Catch news , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 script language= '' JavaScript '' var zflag_nid= '' 1528 '' ; var zflag_cid= '' 3639 '' ; var zflag_sid= '' 631 '' ; var zflag_width= '' 300 '' ; var zflag_height= '' 250 '' ; var zflag_sz= '' 9 '' ; var zflag_click= '' [ INSERT_CLICK_TRACKER_MACRO ] '' ; [ w1277 ] [ if lt IE 9 ] [ w1278 ] [ if IE 8 ] class= '' ie8 '' lang= '' en '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //ogp.me/ns/fb # '' [ w1280 ] 'PR skills of Kim Jong-un ' : Time for tech giants to dump their egos 'PR skills of Kim Jong-un ' : Time for tech giants to dump their egos Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today 's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement Opinion Technology Social media 'PR skills of Kim Jong-un ' : Time for tech giants to dump their egos By Matthew Lynn Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size In the words of one image consultant , Mark Zuckerberg had 15 minutes to deal with the Cambridge Analytica crisis that has wiped billions from the value of his company . It took him five days , and even then his glib response did little to fix the problem . Indeed , Facebook 's shares carried on falling . It has been a lamentable performance from what should be one of the world 's most media savvy firms . What could have been a minor setback if handled properly has turned into a potential extinction event for Facebook . Photo : The New York Times But hold on . It is far from alone . In fact , all the tech giants are terrible at communicating . Cocooned within a bubble of self-righteousness and dominated by founder-entrepreneurs , they react to a crisis with a mixture of bluster and arrogance that takes a bad situation and makes it several times worse . Sooner or later they are going to have to find a way of fixing that - or else find themselves constantly hammered by one crisis or another . If there was one thing you might think they would be aware of at Facebook 's Menlo Park headquarters it is that on the internet , information travels very quickly . And yet as the scandal over Cambridge Analytica 's use of information grew , the company acted as if it had all the time in the world . Advertisement It was Wednesday before it said anything , and even then all it could come up with was a long , technical post on its own site followed by a rambling half apology on TV from Zuckerberg . What should have been a minor setback was suddenly turned into a potential extinction event . It is not the first time it has happened , however . Amazon , despite its brilliance in technology and marketing , has all the PR skills of North Korea 's Kim Jong-un . It has been plunged into one scandal after another . It typically responds with all the empathy and savvy of a local parking ranger on a bad day . In most cases , it remains inscrutably silent . When it does say something , it usually makes it worse . Amazon typically responds with all the empathy and savvy of a parking ranger on a bad day . Likewise , Apple has come under fire for conditions at its sub-contractor 's factories in China , and for built-in obsolescence on its phones . Google has been in trouble over its diversity programme and allegations of sexism . Again , both companies have been hapless in their response . It is not hard to understand what the problem is . These are all companies that have grown to vast size very quickly . The oldest of them is just over four decades into its existence . They have not had the time to mature , or to build up experience of how to deal with setbacks , as well as success . Dominant founders : There is n't much point in anyone telling Jeff Bezos at Amazon or Zuckerberg at Facebook that they are making a terrible hash of a situation . Photo : Supplied Next , they are all dominated by founder-entrepreneurs who are typically convinced of their invulnerability . There is n't much point in anyone telling Jeff Bezos at Amazon or Zuckerberg at Facebook that they are making a terrible hash of a situation . That mixture of self-belief and confidence is great for building a new company . At a certain point , it turns into hubris . And that is when it starts to catch you out . 'Do n't be evil ' bites back Finally , all the major tech giants operate within a culture of self-righteousness that makes it impossible for them to believe they are in the wrong . When you make `` do n't be evil '' one of your corporate mottos , as Google did ( although it quietly dropped it a couple of years ago ) , you are tempting the gods to take revenge . Likewise , when you identify closely with liberal politics ahead of a potential presidential run , as Zuckerberg has , you make yourself a target . Companies with billions in revenues probably are n't perfect all the time . It would help if their CEOs recognised that and concentrated on fixing problems rather than insisting they get everything right . Very few big businesses are good at responding to scandals . Volkswagen did n't handle dieselgate well . None of the companies caught up in the UK horse meat scandal in 2013 came out of it looking good . Most , however , do at least manage to come up with an apology fairly quickly , and have learnt that they need to start fixing problems as quickly as they can . The tech giants have yet to grasp that . They are now of a size where they will need to learn how to respond quickly and effectively . Facebook has already lost $ US50 billion ( $ 63 billion ) in market value since the story broke . The major tech stocks have lost $ US200 billion between them . But if they ca n't figure out how to deal with a crisis , those may be just the start of the losses . The Daily Telegraph , London Social media Amazon Facebook Opinion Most Viewed in Technology Morning & Afternoon Newsletter Delivered Mon–Fri . Email address By signing up you accept our privacy policy and conditions of use The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times The Canberra Times WAtoday The Australian Financial Review Domain Traveller Good Food Executive Style The Store by Fairfax Drive Adzuna RSVP Essential Baby Essential Kids Weatherzone Tributes Celebrations Place your ad Commercial Real Estate Oneflare Nabo Contact & support Advertise with us Newsletters Accessibility guide Sitemap Subscription packages Subscriber benefits My account Subscriptions FAQs Today 's Paper Photo sales Purchase front pages Fairfax syndication Fairfax events Fairfax careers Conditions of use Privacy policy Press Council Copyright © 2018 [ w1281 ] class= '' ie7 lte8 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] desktop pages/base/base.jsp pages/base/desktop.jsp pages/base/desktop/head.jsp Major brands temporarily pull advertising from Facebook in response to scandal afr.com Digital Data Script Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Always force IE to render in the most recent mode pages/article/desktop/body.jsp Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Help using this website - Accessibility statement Financial Review - afrrr.com Menu Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design All News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports Rear Window Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Gambling Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters to the Editor Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Leadership Management Careers Company Culture Innovation Entrepreneur Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars , Bikes & Boats Health Home Design The Australian Financial Review Magazine Luxury The Sophisticated Traveller SEARCH BAR Toggle the AFR search box Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search SEARCH BAR END Close menu SEARCH BAR Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search SEARCH BAR END Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design Markets Data My Saved Articles Done Select All Remove All News Topic ASX People under construction under construction under construction under construction My Saved Searches Done Select all Delete Home Technology Social Media Facebook pages/article/desktop/content.jsp Mar 24 2018 at 10:09 AM Updated Mar 24 2018 at 10:09 AM Save article My Saved Articles Print Major brands temporarily pull advertising from Facebook in response to scandal Share The maker of the popular web browser Firefox , Mozilla , says it is `` taking a break '' from Facebook in the aftermath of the Cambridge Analytica scandal . Mozilla , Tesla and other companies are distancing themselves from Facebook following revelations of a major leak of user data to political consultants associated with the 2016 Trump campaign . While the actions will not likely be permanent and wo n't have much of an effect on Facebook 's bottom line , they 're the latest fallout the social-media giant has to contend with from the ever-spiraling scandal – along with a tumbling stock price and a # deletefacebook movement . `` We 're taking a break from Facebook , '' Mozilla said in a blog post on Wednesday . The company , which created the Firefox web browser , said it is `` pressing pause '' on its Facebook advertising and wo n't be posting on its Facebook page . But it did not delete its page and said it will consider returning if Facebook takes stronger actions to protect users ' data and improves privacy settings . German bank Commerzbank also said it was putting Facebook advertising `` on hold '' as it evaluates data security . And Sonos , which makes speakers and other electronics , said it is pulling advertising from Facebook , Instagram , Google , and Twitter for a week . The maker of the popular web browser Firefox and Elon Musk 's Tesla and SpaceX are `` taking a break '' from Facebook in the aftermath of the Cambridge Analytica scandal . AP Elon Musk , meanwhile , made waves , saying in a Twitter exchange he would take down the Facebook sites for his companies Tesla and SpaceX . As of Thursday afternoon , the sites appeared to be inactive . Tesla and SpaceX did not respond to a request for comment . Advertisement Related Quotes 5 years 1 Day Last updated : Last updated : ASX Announcements While the actions are likely temporary , they 're one more piece of the growing headache for Facebook since news of the leak broke a week ago . The social media giant has faced growing criticism because CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg did not speak out until five days after the story broke . The company 's stock price shed 14 per cent of its value this week , and the grumblings by users , and now , businesses shows no sign of abating. `` The Cambridge Analytica scandal , like many recent headlines coming out of Silicon Valley , raises questions about whether Big Tech is doing enough to balance its own interests with one of its biggest responsibilities : safeguarding your privacy , '' Sonos wrote in a blog post . But Facebook downplayed the actions by the businesses . `` Most of the businesses we 've spoken with this week are pleased with the steps we 've outlined to better protect people 's data , and they have confidence that we 'll respond to these challenges and become a better partner and company as a result , '' the company said in a statement when asked about the advertiser defection . The fact is , most advertisers need Facebook as a platform because its reach is so great , so any break is likely to only be temporary , said Allen Adamson , founder of brand-marketing consultancy Metaforce . `` Companies can take a short-term hiatus to get some positive spin in the market , but there 's no other alternative for digital marketing today , '' he said . `` If you do n't use Facebook , the other options are not great . '' AAP Share Latest Stories If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . latest stories end Advertisement Related articles If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : pages/article/desktop/footer.jsp content/footer/footer.jsp The 200 richest people in Australia Rich List lodge owners raise the bar at Falls Creek Cardboard king : Inside Anthony Pratt 's empire The man who dresses Rich Listers ' homes What the Lowys will do after Westfield You could soon order pizza through your TV : Menulog The question that could fix bad corporate behaviour Banks face an even bigger threat than rival banks How to escape the maelstrom of leadership demands Microsoft president Brad Smith wants to save the world Why emojis are popping up centre stage @ the NGV 5 of the most exclusive properties for sale this week Luxury treats to spend your money on this week Nura 's smart-looking headphones are smarter than most Why this South Yarra hotel is the new look of luxe Special Reports Get personal finance in order before overseas posting Queensland rainmakers depart Macquarie Private Weath Integrated Portfolio Solutions unwraps new fin services IPO contender Odds on 'light touch ' NEG shorten Storage a critical factor for renewables Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Subscription Terms Digital Subscription Terms Newspaper Subscription Terms Corporate Subscriptions Contact & Feedback About us Our Events FAQ Contact us Letters to the Editor Give feedback Advertise Site Map Accessibility Markets Data Markets Overview World Equities Commodities Currencies Derivatives Interest Rates Share Tables Brands The Australian Financial Review Magazine BOSS AFR Lists Chanticleer Luxury Rear Window The Sophisticated Traveller Fairfax Network The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby Home Price Guide Weatherzone Oneflare The Store © Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Reprints & Permissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions of Use Message for IEX users ( adjust conditional comment and message according to your site 's IE browser support ) [ if lte IE 7 Please upgrade your browser . Internet Explorer 7 is no longer supported . In order to view and use AFR properly and more securely you will need to upgrade to any of the following supported browsers for FREE : , , , , . [ w1282 ] HTML [ if IE 8 ] class= '' no-js lt-ie9 '' xml : lang= '' en '' [ w1283 ] New Zealand Herald nzherald.co.nz Saturday , 02 June 2018 Sign into your NZ Herald Register here Find out more My News Your news how you want it . On the go and no time to finish that story right now ? Your News is the place for you to save content to read later from any device . Register with us and content you save will appear here so you can access them to read later . Find out more Register now Home Business New Zealand Regional News Sport Business Property Technology World Opinion TimeOut Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Rural OneRoof Property YUDU Jobs Driven Motoring News Video Photos Puzzles & Quizzes Classifieds Crime Politics Health Education Environment NZ Herald Focus Premium & Indepth Infographics Property Weather NZH Local Focus The Northern Advocate The Northland Age The Aucklander Hamilton News Bay of Plenty Times Hawke 's Bay Today Rotorua Daily Post Wanganui Chronicle Stratford Press Manawatu Guardian Kapiti News Horowhenua Chronicle Te Awamutu Courier Sports Scene Rugby League Cricket Football Netball Basketball Golf Motorsport Sailing Hockey Tennis eSports UFC Boxing Athletics Triathlon Racing American Sports Budget 2018 Small Business Business Opinion Personal Finance Currency Table Economy Business Travel Deloitte Top 200 Property Herald Homes OneRoof Property True Commercial Spy TV Movies Books Music Culture Sideswipe Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Relationships Wellbeing Pets & Animals Bite Viva Canvas Horoscopes Restaurants & Menus Africa Americas Asia Australia Europe Middle East NZ Travel Pacific Sudoku Codecracker Crosswords Wordsearch Daily quizzes Super Rugby All Blacks Lions Tour Rugby Champs NPC Six Nations Black Caps Domestic Cricket F1 V8 Rally Indycar Bikes Speedway GT NASCAR Drifting Driven Recipes Restaurant Reviews Restaurants & Menus Trending Topics Fees for NZ 's Great Walks All Blacks 1995 'poisoning ' Rental property heating Moo goes there ? Weather Weather Home Kaitaia Whangarei Dargaville Auckland Thames Tauranga Hamilton Whakatane Rotorua Tokoroa Te Kuiti Taumarunui Taupo Gisborne New Plymouth Napier Hastings Dannevirke Whanganui Palmerston North Levin Paraparaumu Masterton Wellington Motueka Nelson Blenheim Westport Reefton Kaikoura Greymouth Hokitika Christchurch Ashburton Timaru Wanaka Oamaru Queenstown Dunedin Gore Invercargill NZME Network NZ Herald The Northern Advocate The Northland Age The Aucklander Hamilton News Bay Of Plenty Times Rotorua Daily Post Hawke 's Bay Today Wanganui Chronicle The Stratford Press Manawatu Guardian Kapiti News Horowhenua Chronicle Te Awamutu Courier Viva Bite Spy OneRoof YUDU Driven Motoring True Commercial The Country NZ Herald Insights Chinese Herald NewsPix WatchMe GrabOne iHeart Radio Restaurant Hub follow NZ HERALD on : Listen Live From breaking news to debate and conversation , we bring you the news as it happens All things property Whether you ’ re looking to buy or rent , OneRoof.co.nz has everything you need to find your dream home . About NZME Help & Support Contact Us Subscribe to NZ Herald Manage Your Subscription NZ Herald Digital Edition Advertise with NZME Book Your Ad Privacy Policy Terms of Use Competition Terms & Conditions © Copyright 2018 NZME . Publishing Limited How to match boards and entrepreneurs Elon Musk joins # DeleteFacebook movement Advertisement Advertise with NZME . How much is your personal data worth ? 24 Mar , 2018 8:48am 4 minutes to read Most people would say their privacy is priceless , but on the dark web it 's anything but . Photo / 123RF If most people were asked how much their privacy is worth , they 'd likely say it 's priceless . Unfortunately , hackers and identity thieves are n't so generous . User logins for many of the most popular apps sell for next to nothing on the dark web , a shadowy corner of the internet that 's frequented by criminals , drug users , arms dealers and is often the grounds for all kinds of illicit activities , according to the Daily Mail . Now , a recent report from content marketing agency Fractl has found out just how much your data is worth on the dark web . Advertisement Advertise with NZME . The price of user privacy has been cast into the spotlight in the wake of Facebook 's massive data scandal , which led to 50 million users ' data being harvested without their knowledge . Facebook has since announced that it would notify all users whose data was misused by British research firm Cambridge Analytica or any app developers who are found to have mismanaged users ' personal information . This addresses the issue of user information being sold to advertisers , research firms and the like , but it does n't touch upon one of the internet 's busiest marketplaces the dark web . For the study , Fractl scoured all the fraud-related listings on the three biggest dark web marketplaces Dream , Point and Wall Street Market last month , according to MarketWatch . To do this , they downloaded a Tor client , or a network that grants anonymity to internet browsers , which is required in order to access the dark web . There , they discovered that Facebook logins are sold for just US $ 5.20 ( $ 7.18 ) each . Related articles : Elon Musk 's dad , 72 , had baby with stepdaughter , 30 24 Mar , 2018 8:11am Brian Gaynor : Bank boards a vital cog in NZ economy 24 Mar , 2018 5:00am Bank sees investment potential in NZ 24 Mar , 2018 5:00am Facebook facing advertising boycott 23 Mar , 2018 11:00am Obtaining someone 's Facebook credentials can serve as a gateway into hundreds of other apps they 've also granted access . That 's because Facebook allows thousands of third-party `` vampire apps '' to plug in to its social network and siphon off data from its users . This means anything from popular services like Airbnb and Spotify , to dodgy quiz apps or online games like Farmville . Many users may use their Facebook account to login to these apps , which means that if a hacker has your credentials for the social media platform , they can easily get into many other accounts . Meanwhile , credentials for other popular services like Gmail , Uber and Grubhub are just as cheap . Your Gmail username and password is a bargain at just US $ 1 , while Uber account logins go for US $ 7 and Grubhub logins sell for US $ 9 . By comparison , the most expensive logins are for PayPal , which can demand up to US $ 247 , according to Fractl . According to experts , the reason why some credentials sell for cheap is because hackers can so easily obtain it nowadays . It 's a classic case of supply and demand : With so much data available on the internet , hackers can easily obtain it , sell it and move on . Similarly , a separate study by security research firm Top 10 VPN revealed that your entire online identity can be sold for approximately US $ 1,200 . Top 10 VPN also found that Facebook logins would sell for US $ 5.20 on the dark web . What 's perhaps most concerning is that the firm found that extremely sensitive 'proofs of identity ' like passports and selfies or utility bills sell for US $ 62 and US $ 29 , respectively . According to Top 10 VPN , criminals can purchase online banking details for just US $ 160 , while all of your financial information can sell for US $ 710 . The firm found that hacked financial details were `` by far '' the most commonly listed items , with credit cards being the most valuable . PayPal accounts were also in high demand , Top 10 VPN noted . Interestingly , they discovered that other popular listings are often referred to as `` fullz . '' `` These bundles of 'full ' identifying information , sometimes are either packaged with financial details or sold separately , '' the firm said . `` We found listings featuring individuals ' name , billing address , mother 's maiden name , social security number , date of birth and other personal data . '' The items that garnered the lowest price tag were online dating logins for sites like Match.com or Plenty of Fish . `` While hacked dating accounts could certainly be used for 'castfishing , ' ... it 's cheaper and easier to just create fake accounts , '' the firm noted . Trending Topics Fees for NZ 's Great Walks All Blacks 1995 'poisoning ' Rental property heating Moo goes there ? Advertisement Advertise with NZME . Latest from Business Kiwis abuzz over $ 1b dating app , Bumble 1 Jun , 2018 2:36pm 4 minutes to read M. bovis threat hits AgResearch farm 1 Jun , 2018 10:37pm 3 minutes to read NZ 's best investor — is it BoP Regional Council ? 1 Jun , 2018 12:14pm 7 minutes to read Latest News Most Read The Latest : SKorea official says NKorea leader sincere 2 Jun , 2018 4:00pm 6 minutes to read Sun stay unbeaten with 110-72 win over Sky 2 Jun , 2018 3:55pm Quick Read Foltynewicz pitches first career complete game , Braves win 2 Jun , 2018 3:55pm 4 minutes to read The price of a private lunch with Warren Buffett : $ 3.3M 2 Jun , 2018 3:50pm 2 minutes to read Inside broadcaster Peter Williams ' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun , 2018 1:15pm 2 minutes to read Why Vladimir Putin has no fear 2 Jun , 2018 8:12am 6 minutes to read Live streaming : Auckland v Tonga New Zealand Residents 2 Jun , 2018 12:13pm Quick Read Dick Quax 's special funeral requests 2 Jun , 2018 1:41pm 4 minutes to read Currency converter : Amount : From this currency : New Zealand Dollars ( NZD ) Australia Dollars ( AUD ) United States Dollars ( USD ) Euro ( EUR ) United Kingdom Pounds ( GBP ) Japan Yen ( JPY ) China Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Canada Dollars ( CAD ) South Africa Rand ( ZAR ) Emirati Dirham ( AED ) Afghan Afghani ( AFN ) Albanian Lek ( ALL ) Armenian Dram ( AMD ) Dutch Guilder ( ANG ) Angolan Kwanza ( AOA ) Argentine Peso ( ARS ) Australian Dollar ( AUD ) Aruban or Dutch Guilder ( AWG ) Azerbaijan Manat ( AZN ) Bosnian Convertible Marka ( BAM ) Barbadian or Bajan Dollar ( BBD ) Bangladeshi Taka ( BDT ) Bulgarian Lev ( BGN ) Bahraini Dinar ( BHD ) Burundian Franc ( BIF ) Bermudian Dollar ( BMD ) Bruneian Dollar ( BND ) Bolivian Bolíviano ( BOB ) Brazilian Real ( BRL ) Bahamian Dollar ( BSD ) Bhutanese Ngultrum ( BTN ) Botswana Pula ( BWP ) Belarusian Ruble ( BYN ) Belizean Dollar ( BZD ) Canadian Dollar ( CAD ) Congolese Franc ( CDF ) Swiss Franc ( CHF ) Chilean Peso ( CLP ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi Offshore ( CNH ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Colombian Peso ( COP ) Costa Rican Colon ( CRC ) Cuban Convertible Peso ( CUC ) Cuban Peso ( CUP ) Cape Verdean Escudo ( CVE ) Czech Koruna ( CZK ) Djiboutian Franc ( DJF ) Danish Krone ( DKK ) Dominican Peso ( DOP ) Algerian Dinar ( DZD ) Egyptian Pound ( EGP ) Eritrean Nakfa ( ERN ) Ethiopian Birr ( ETB ) Euro ( EUR ) Fijian Dollar ( FJD ) Falkland Island Pound ( FKP ) British Pound ( GBP ) Georgian Lari ( GEL ) Guernsey Pound ( GGP ) Ghanaian Cedi ( GHS ) Gibraltar Pound ( GIP ) Gambian Dalasi ( GMD ) Guinean Franc ( GNF ) Guatemalan Quetzal ( GTQ ) Guyanese Dollar ( GYD ) Hong Kong Dollar ( HKD ) Honduran Lempira ( HNL ) Croatian Kuna ( HRK ) Haitian Gourde ( HTG ) Hungarian Forint ( HUF ) Indonesian Rupiah ( IDR ) Israeli Shekel ( ILS ) Isle of Man Pound ( IMP ) Indian Rupee ( INR ) Iraqi Dinar ( IQD ) Iranian Rial ( IRR ) Icelandic Krona ( ISK ) Jersey Pound ( JEP ) Jamaican Dollar ( JMD ) Jordanian Dinar ( JOD ) Japanese Yen ( JPY ) Kenyan Shilling ( KES ) Kyrgyzstani Som ( KGS ) Cambodian Riel ( KHR ) Comorian Franc ( KMF ) North Korean Won ( KPW ) South Korean Won ( KRW ) Kuwaiti Dinar ( KWD ) Caymanian Dollar ( KYD ) Kazakhstani Tenge ( KZT ) Lao Kip ( LAK ) Lebanese Pound ( LBP ) Sri Lankan Rupee ( LKR ) Liberian Dollar ( LRD ) Basotho Loti ( LSL ) Libyan Dinar ( LYD ) Moroccan Dirham ( MAD ) Moldovan Leu ( MDL ) Malagasy Ariary ( MGA ) Macedonian Denar ( MKD ) Burmese Kyat ( MMK ) Mongolian Tughrik ( MNT ) Macau Pataca ( MOP ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRO ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRU ) Mauritian Rupee ( MUR ) Maldivian Rufiyaa ( MVR ) Malawian Kwacha ( MWK ) Mexican Peso ( MXN ) Malaysian Ringgit ( MYR ) Mozambican Metical ( MZN ) Namibian Dollar ( NAD ) Nigerian Naira ( NGN ) Nicaraguan Cordoba ( NIO ) Norwegian Krone ( NOK ) Nepalese Rupee ( NPR ) New Zealand Dollar ( NZD ) Omani Rial ( OMR ) Panamanian Balboa ( PAB ) Peruvian Sol ( PEN ) Papua New Guinean Kina ( PGK ) Philippine Piso ( PHP ) Pakistani Rupee ( PKR ) Polish Zloty ( PLN ) Paraguayan Guarani ( PYG ) Qatari Riyal ( QAR ) Romanian Leu ( RON ) Serbian Dinar ( RSD ) Russian Ruble ( RUB ) Rwandan Franc ( RWF ) Saudi Arabian Riyal ( SAR ) Solomon Islander Dollar ( SBD ) Seychellois Rupee ( SCR ) Sudanese Pound ( SDG ) Swedish Krona ( SEK ) Singapore Dollar ( SGD ) Saint Helenian Pound ( SHP ) Sierra Leonean Leone ( SLL ) Somali Shilling ( SOS ) Seborgan Luigino ( SPL ) Surinamese Dollar ( SRD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STN ) Salvadoran Colon ( SVC ) Syrian Pound ( SYP ) Swazi Lilangeni ( SZL ) Thai Baht ( THB ) Tajikistani Somoni ( TJS ) Turkmenistani Manat ( TMT ) Tunisian Dinar ( TND ) Tongan Pa'anga ( TOP ) Turkish Lira ( TRY ) Trinidadian Dollar ( TTD ) Tuvaluan Dollar ( TVD ) Taiwan New Dollar ( TWD ) Tanzanian Shilling ( TZS ) Ukrainian Hryvnia ( UAH ) Ugandan Shilling ( UGX ) US Dollar ( USD ) Uruguayan Peso ( UYU ) Uzbekistani Som ( UZS ) Venezuelan Bolívar ( VEF ) Vietnamese Dong ( VND ) Ni-Vanuatu Vatu ( VUV ) Samoan Tala ( WST ) Central African CFA Franc BEAC ( XAF ) Silver Ounce ( XAG ) Gold Ounce ( XAU ) Bitcoin ( XBT ) East Caribbean Dollar ( XCD ) IMF Special Drawing Rights ( XDR ) CFA Franc ( XOF ) Palladium Ounce ( XPD ) CFP Franc ( XPF ) Platinum Ounce ( XPT ) Yemeni Rial ( YER ) South African Rand ( ZAR ) Zambian Kwacha ( ZMW ) Zimbabwean Dollar ( ZWD ) To this currency : Australia Dollars ( AUD ) New Zealand Dollars ( NZD ) United States Dollars ( USD ) Euro ( EUR ) United Kingdom Pounds ( GBP ) Japan Yen ( JPY ) China Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Canada Dollars ( CAD ) South Africa Rand ( ZAR ) Emirati Dirham ( AED ) Afghan Afghani ( AFN ) Albanian Lek ( ALL ) Armenian Dram ( AMD ) Dutch Guilder ( ANG ) Angolan Kwanza ( AOA ) Argentine Peso ( ARS ) Australian Dollar ( AUD ) Aruban or Dutch Guilder ( AWG ) Azerbaijan Manat ( AZN ) Bosnian Convertible Marka ( BAM ) Barbadian or Bajan Dollar ( BBD ) Bangladeshi Taka ( BDT ) Bulgarian Lev ( BGN ) Bahraini Dinar ( BHD ) Burundian Franc ( BIF ) Bermudian Dollar ( BMD ) Bruneian Dollar ( BND ) Bolivian Bolíviano ( BOB ) Brazilian Real ( BRL ) Bahamian Dollar ( BSD ) Bhutanese Ngultrum ( BTN ) Botswana Pula ( BWP ) Belarusian Ruble ( BYN ) Belizean Dollar ( BZD ) Canadian Dollar ( CAD ) Congolese Franc ( CDF ) Swiss Franc ( CHF ) Chilean Peso ( CLP ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi Offshore ( CNH ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Colombian Peso ( COP ) Costa Rican Colon ( CRC ) Cuban Convertible Peso ( CUC ) Cuban Peso ( CUP ) Cape Verdean Escudo ( CVE ) Czech Koruna ( CZK ) Djiboutian Franc ( DJF ) Danish Krone ( DKK ) Dominican Peso ( DOP ) Algerian Dinar ( DZD ) Egyptian Pound ( EGP ) Eritrean Nakfa ( ERN ) Ethiopian Birr ( ETB ) Euro ( EUR ) Fijian Dollar ( FJD ) Falkland Island Pound ( FKP ) British Pound ( GBP ) Georgian Lari ( GEL ) Guernsey Pound ( GGP ) Ghanaian Cedi ( GHS ) Gibraltar Pound ( GIP ) Gambian Dalasi ( GMD ) Guinean Franc ( GNF ) Guatemalan Quetzal ( GTQ ) Guyanese Dollar ( GYD ) Hong Kong Dollar ( HKD ) Honduran Lempira ( HNL ) Croatian Kuna ( HRK ) Haitian Gourde ( HTG ) Hungarian Forint ( HUF ) Indonesian Rupiah ( IDR ) Israeli Shekel ( ILS ) Isle of Man Pound ( IMP ) Indian Rupee ( INR ) Iraqi Dinar ( IQD ) Iranian Rial ( IRR ) Icelandic Krona ( ISK ) Jersey Pound ( JEP ) Jamaican Dollar ( JMD ) Jordanian Dinar ( JOD ) Japanese Yen ( JPY ) Kenyan Shilling ( KES ) Kyrgyzstani Som ( KGS ) Cambodian Riel ( KHR ) Comorian Franc ( KMF ) North Korean Won ( KPW ) South Korean Won ( KRW ) Kuwaiti Dinar ( KWD ) Caymanian Dollar ( KYD ) Kazakhstani Tenge ( KZT ) Lao Kip ( LAK ) Lebanese Pound ( LBP ) Sri Lankan Rupee ( LKR ) Liberian Dollar ( LRD ) Basotho Loti ( LSL ) Libyan Dinar ( LYD ) Moroccan Dirham ( MAD ) Moldovan Leu ( MDL ) Malagasy Ariary ( MGA ) Macedonian Denar ( MKD ) Burmese Kyat ( MMK ) Mongolian Tughrik ( MNT ) Macau Pataca ( MOP ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRO ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRU ) Mauritian Rupee ( MUR ) Maldivian Rufiyaa ( MVR ) Malawian Kwacha ( MWK ) Mexican Peso ( MXN ) Malaysian Ringgit ( MYR ) Mozambican Metical ( MZN ) Namibian Dollar ( NAD ) Nigerian Naira ( NGN ) Nicaraguan Cordoba ( NIO ) Norwegian Krone ( NOK ) Nepalese Rupee ( NPR ) New Zealand Dollar ( NZD ) Omani Rial ( OMR ) Panamanian Balboa ( PAB ) Peruvian Sol ( PEN ) Papua New Guinean Kina ( PGK ) Philippine Piso ( PHP ) Pakistani Rupee ( PKR ) Polish Zloty ( PLN ) Paraguayan Guarani ( PYG ) Qatari Riyal ( QAR ) Romanian Leu ( RON ) Serbian Dinar ( RSD ) Russian Ruble ( RUB ) Rwandan Franc ( RWF ) Saudi Arabian Riyal ( SAR ) Solomon Islander Dollar ( SBD ) Seychellois Rupee ( SCR ) Sudanese Pound ( SDG ) Swedish Krona ( SEK ) Singapore Dollar ( SGD ) Saint Helenian Pound ( SHP ) Sierra Leonean Leone ( SLL ) Somali Shilling ( SOS ) Seborgan Luigino ( SPL ) Surinamese Dollar ( SRD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STN ) Salvadoran Colon ( SVC ) Syrian Pound ( SYP ) Swazi Lilangeni ( SZL ) Thai Baht ( THB ) Tajikistani Somoni ( TJS ) Turkmenistani Manat ( TMT ) Tunisian Dinar ( TND ) Tongan Pa'anga ( TOP ) Turkish Lira ( TRY ) Trinidadian Dollar ( TTD ) Tuvaluan Dollar ( TVD ) Taiwan New Dollar ( TWD ) Tanzanian Shilling ( TZS ) Ukrainian Hryvnia ( UAH ) Ugandan Shilling ( UGX ) US Dollar ( USD ) Uruguayan Peso ( UYU ) Uzbekistani Som ( UZS ) Venezuelan Bolívar ( VEF ) Vietnamese Dong ( VND ) Ni-Vanuatu Vatu ( VUV ) Samoan Tala ( WST ) Central African CFA Franc BEAC ( XAF ) Silver Ounce ( XAG ) Gold Ounce ( XAU ) Bitcoin ( XBT ) East Caribbean Dollar ( XCD ) IMF Special Drawing Rights ( XDR ) CFA Franc ( XOF ) Palladium Ounce ( XPD ) CFP Franc ( XPF ) Platinum Ounce ( XPT ) Yemeni Rial ( YER ) South African Rand ( ZAR ) Zambian Kwacha ( ZMW ) Zimbabwean Dollar ( ZWD ) Convert Advertisement Advertise with NZME . Trending in Business Hands off my data ! 15 default privacy settings you should change right now 2 Jun , 2018 3:00pm 11 minutes to read Say no to defaults . A clickable guide to fixing complicated privacy settings . Inside broadcaster Peter Williams ' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun , 2018 1:15pm 2 minutes to read The veteran TV presenter lets Herald Homes inside his St Mary 's Bay abode . Bank 's ruthless move costs couple their business 29 May , 2018 9:03pm 4 minutes to read The couple never missed a single payment . But the bank still seized their property anyway . National Business Sport Property World Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Technology [ w1284 ] New Zealand Herald nzherald.co.nz Saturday , 02 June 2018 Sign into your NZ Herald Register here Find out more My News Your news how you want it . On the go and no time to finish that story right now ? Your News is the place for you to save content to read later from any device . Register with us and content you save will appear here so you can access them to read later . Find out more Register now Home Business New Zealand Regional News Sport Business Property Technology World Opinion TimeOut Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Rural OneRoof Property YUDU Jobs Driven Motoring News Video Photos Puzzles & Quizzes Classifieds Crime Politics Health Education Environment NZ Herald Focus Premium & Indepth Infographics Property Weather NZH Local Focus The Northern Advocate The Northland Age The Aucklander Hamilton News Bay of Plenty Times Hawke 's Bay Today Rotorua Daily Post Wanganui Chronicle Stratford Press Manawatu Guardian Kapiti News Horowhenua Chronicle Te Awamutu Courier Sports Scene Rugby League Cricket Football Netball Basketball Golf Motorsport Sailing Hockey Tennis eSports UFC Boxing Athletics Triathlon Racing American Sports Budget 2018 Small Business Business Opinion Personal Finance Currency Table Economy Business Travel Deloitte Top 200 Property Herald Homes OneRoof Property True Commercial Spy TV Movies Books Music Culture Sideswipe Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Relationships Wellbeing Pets & Animals Bite Viva Canvas Horoscopes Restaurants & Menus Africa Americas Asia Australia Europe Middle East NZ Travel Pacific Sudoku Codecracker Crosswords Wordsearch Daily quizzes Super Rugby All Blacks Lions Tour Rugby Champs NPC Six Nations Black Caps Domestic Cricket F1 V8 Rally Indycar Bikes Speedway GT NASCAR Drifting Driven Recipes Restaurant Reviews Restaurants & Menus Trending Topics Fees for NZ 's Great Walks All Blacks 1995 'poisoning ' Rental property heating Moo goes there ? Weather Weather Home Kaitaia Whangarei Dargaville Auckland Thames Tauranga Hamilton Whakatane Rotorua Tokoroa Te Kuiti Taumarunui Taupo Gisborne New Plymouth Napier Hastings Dannevirke Whanganui Palmerston North Levin Paraparaumu Masterton Wellington Motueka Nelson Blenheim Westport Reefton Kaikoura Greymouth Hokitika Christchurch Ashburton Timaru Wanaka Oamaru Queenstown Dunedin Gore Invercargill NZME Network NZ Herald The Northern Advocate The Northland Age The Aucklander Hamilton News Bay Of Plenty Times Rotorua Daily Post Hawke 's Bay Today Wanganui Chronicle The Stratford Press Manawatu Guardian Kapiti News Horowhenua Chronicle Te Awamutu Courier Viva Bite Spy OneRoof YUDU Driven Motoring True Commercial The Country NZ Herald Insights Chinese Herald NewsPix WatchMe GrabOne iHeart Radio Restaurant Hub follow NZ HERALD on : Listen Live From breaking news to debate and conversation , we bring you the news as it happens All things property Whether you ’ re looking to buy or rent , OneRoof.co.nz has everything you need to find your dream home . About NZME Help & Support Contact Us Subscribe to NZ Herald Manage Your Subscription NZ Herald Digital Edition Advertise with NZME Book Your Ad Privacy Policy Terms of Use Competition Terms & Conditions © Copyright 2018 NZME . Publishing Limited How much is your personal data worth ? US stocks tumble in worst week since 2016 Advertisement Advertise with NZME . Elon Musk joins # DeleteFacebook movement 24 Mar , 2018 8:52am 2 minutes to read Video will play in Facebook is facing a global firestorm after reports a data research firm connected to the 2017 trump campaign illicitly harvested personal data from 50 million users . Rocket company SpaceX 's verified Facebook page has disappeared , minutes after its founder and Silicon Valley billionaire Elon Musknonchalantly promised on Twitter to take down the page when challenged by a user . `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you 're the man ? '' a user tweeted to Tesla chief Musk . His response : `` I did n't realise there was one . Will do . '' Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you 're the man ? — ㅤ ( @ serdarsprofile ) March 23 , 2018 SpaceX 's Facebook page , which had more than 2.7 million followers , is no longer accessible , reports News.com.au . Advertisement Advertise with NZME . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton of the # deletefacebook tag . `` What 's Facebook ? '' Musk tweeted . He then took it a step further when a user said the Tesla Facebook page should probably go as well . `` Definitely , '' he responded . `` Looks lame anyway '' . The Tesla page also had about 2.6 billion 'likes ' . Definitely . Looks lame anyway . — Elon Musk ( @ elonmusk ) March 23 , 2018 As of 1pm EST ( 4am AEDT ) both pages were unreachable . A Tesla spokesperson deferred to Mr Musk 's tweets . `` I 'll just refer you to Elon 's tweets this morning , '' says Tesla in an email to CNBC . Facebook has been in damage control after it was revealed that it exposed data on 50 million Facebook users to a researcher who worked at Cambridge Analytica , which worked for Donald Trump 's election campaign . A judge in the UK issued a warrant for the London offices of Cambridge Analytica to be searched late on Friday night , local time . Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham wants access to records and data in the hands of the London-based company amid claims that Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used for political campaigns . Mr Zuckerberg pledged on Wednesday to take a series of steps to protect data and fix what he called a `` breach of trust '' between the social network and its users . `` We have a responsibility to protect your data , and if we ca n't then we do n't deserve to serve you , '' Mr Zuckerberg wrote in a Facebook post . `` I 've been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this does n't happen again . '' Trending Topics Fees for NZ 's Great Walks All Blacks 1995 'poisoning ' Rental property heating Moo goes there ? Advertisement Advertise with NZME . Latest from Business Kiwis abuzz over $ 1b dating app , Bumble 1 Jun , 2018 2:36pm 4 minutes to read M. bovis threat hits AgResearch farm 1 Jun , 2018 10:37pm 3 minutes to read NZ 's best investor — is it BoP Regional Council ? 1 Jun , 2018 12:14pm 7 minutes to read Latest News Most Read The Latest : SKorea official says NKorea leader sincere 2 Jun , 2018 4:00pm 6 minutes to read Sun stay unbeaten with 110-72 win over Sky 2 Jun , 2018 3:55pm Quick Read Foltynewicz pitches first career complete game , Braves win 2 Jun , 2018 3:55pm 4 minutes to read The price of a private lunch with Warren Buffett : $ 3.3M 2 Jun , 2018 3:50pm 2 minutes to read Inside broadcaster Peter Williams ' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun , 2018 1:15pm 2 minutes to read Why Vladimir Putin has no fear 2 Jun , 2018 8:12am 6 minutes to read Live streaming : Auckland v Tonga New Zealand Residents 2 Jun , 2018 12:13pm Quick Read Dick Quax 's special funeral requests 2 Jun , 2018 1:41pm 4 minutes to read Currency converter : Amount : From this currency : New Zealand Dollars ( NZD ) Australia Dollars ( AUD ) United States Dollars ( USD ) Euro ( EUR ) United Kingdom Pounds ( GBP ) Japan Yen ( JPY ) China Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Canada Dollars ( CAD ) South Africa Rand ( ZAR ) Emirati Dirham ( AED ) Afghan Afghani ( AFN ) Albanian Lek ( ALL ) Armenian Dram ( AMD ) Dutch Guilder ( ANG ) Angolan Kwanza ( AOA ) Argentine Peso ( ARS ) Australian Dollar ( AUD ) Aruban or Dutch Guilder ( AWG ) Azerbaijan Manat ( AZN ) Bosnian Convertible Marka ( BAM ) Barbadian or Bajan Dollar ( BBD ) Bangladeshi Taka ( BDT ) Bulgarian Lev ( BGN ) Bahraini Dinar ( BHD ) Burundian Franc ( BIF ) Bermudian Dollar ( BMD ) Bruneian Dollar ( BND ) Bolivian Bolíviano ( BOB ) Brazilian Real ( BRL ) Bahamian Dollar ( BSD ) Bhutanese Ngultrum ( BTN ) Botswana Pula ( BWP ) Belarusian Ruble ( BYN ) Belizean Dollar ( BZD ) Canadian Dollar ( CAD ) Congolese Franc ( CDF ) Swiss Franc ( CHF ) Chilean Peso ( CLP ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi Offshore ( CNH ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Colombian Peso ( COP ) Costa Rican Colon ( CRC ) Cuban Convertible Peso ( CUC ) Cuban Peso ( CUP ) Cape Verdean Escudo ( CVE ) Czech Koruna ( CZK ) Djiboutian Franc ( DJF ) Danish Krone ( DKK ) Dominican Peso ( DOP ) Algerian Dinar ( DZD ) Egyptian Pound ( EGP ) Eritrean Nakfa ( ERN ) Ethiopian Birr ( ETB ) Euro ( EUR ) Fijian Dollar ( FJD ) Falkland Island Pound ( FKP ) British Pound ( GBP ) Georgian Lari ( GEL ) Guernsey Pound ( GGP ) Ghanaian Cedi ( GHS ) Gibraltar Pound ( GIP ) Gambian Dalasi ( GMD ) Guinean Franc ( GNF ) Guatemalan Quetzal ( GTQ ) Guyanese Dollar ( GYD ) Hong Kong Dollar ( HKD ) Honduran Lempira ( HNL ) Croatian Kuna ( HRK ) Haitian Gourde ( HTG ) Hungarian Forint ( HUF ) Indonesian Rupiah ( IDR ) Israeli Shekel ( ILS ) Isle of Man Pound ( IMP ) Indian Rupee ( INR ) Iraqi Dinar ( IQD ) Iranian Rial ( IRR ) Icelandic Krona ( ISK ) Jersey Pound ( JEP ) Jamaican Dollar ( JMD ) Jordanian Dinar ( JOD ) Japanese Yen ( JPY ) Kenyan Shilling ( KES ) Kyrgyzstani Som ( KGS ) Cambodian Riel ( KHR ) Comorian Franc ( KMF ) North Korean Won ( KPW ) South Korean Won ( KRW ) Kuwaiti Dinar ( KWD ) Caymanian Dollar ( KYD ) Kazakhstani Tenge ( KZT ) Lao Kip ( LAK ) Lebanese Pound ( LBP ) Sri Lankan Rupee ( LKR ) Liberian Dollar ( LRD ) Basotho Loti ( LSL ) Libyan Dinar ( LYD ) Moroccan Dirham ( MAD ) Moldovan Leu ( MDL ) Malagasy Ariary ( MGA ) Macedonian Denar ( MKD ) Burmese Kyat ( MMK ) Mongolian Tughrik ( MNT ) Macau Pataca ( MOP ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRO ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRU ) Mauritian Rupee ( MUR ) Maldivian Rufiyaa ( MVR ) Malawian Kwacha ( MWK ) Mexican Peso ( MXN ) Malaysian Ringgit ( MYR ) Mozambican Metical ( MZN ) Namibian Dollar ( NAD ) Nigerian Naira ( NGN ) Nicaraguan Cordoba ( NIO ) Norwegian Krone ( NOK ) Nepalese Rupee ( NPR ) New Zealand Dollar ( NZD ) Omani Rial ( OMR ) Panamanian Balboa ( PAB ) Peruvian Sol ( PEN ) Papua New Guinean Kina ( PGK ) Philippine Piso ( PHP ) Pakistani Rupee ( PKR ) Polish Zloty ( PLN ) Paraguayan Guarani ( PYG ) Qatari Riyal ( QAR ) Romanian Leu ( RON ) Serbian Dinar ( RSD ) Russian Ruble ( RUB ) Rwandan Franc ( RWF ) Saudi Arabian Riyal ( SAR ) Solomon Islander Dollar ( SBD ) Seychellois Rupee ( SCR ) Sudanese Pound ( SDG ) Swedish Krona ( SEK ) Singapore Dollar ( SGD ) Saint Helenian Pound ( SHP ) Sierra Leonean Leone ( SLL ) Somali Shilling ( SOS ) Seborgan Luigino ( SPL ) Surinamese Dollar ( SRD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STN ) Salvadoran Colon ( SVC ) Syrian Pound ( SYP ) Swazi Lilangeni ( SZL ) Thai Baht ( THB ) Tajikistani Somoni ( TJS ) Turkmenistani Manat ( TMT ) Tunisian Dinar ( TND ) Tongan Pa'anga ( TOP ) Turkish Lira ( TRY ) Trinidadian Dollar ( TTD ) Tuvaluan Dollar ( TVD ) Taiwan New Dollar ( TWD ) Tanzanian Shilling ( TZS ) Ukrainian Hryvnia ( UAH ) Ugandan Shilling ( UGX ) US Dollar ( USD ) Uruguayan Peso ( UYU ) Uzbekistani Som ( UZS ) Venezuelan Bolívar ( VEF ) Vietnamese Dong ( VND ) Ni-Vanuatu Vatu ( VUV ) Samoan Tala ( WST ) Central African CFA Franc BEAC ( XAF ) Silver Ounce ( XAG ) Gold Ounce ( XAU ) Bitcoin ( XBT ) East Caribbean Dollar ( XCD ) IMF Special Drawing Rights ( XDR ) CFA Franc ( XOF ) Palladium Ounce ( XPD ) CFP Franc ( XPF ) Platinum Ounce ( XPT ) Yemeni Rial ( YER ) South African Rand ( ZAR ) Zambian Kwacha ( ZMW ) Zimbabwean Dollar ( ZWD ) To this currency : Australia Dollars ( AUD ) New Zealand Dollars ( NZD ) United States Dollars ( USD ) Euro ( EUR ) United Kingdom Pounds ( GBP ) Japan Yen ( JPY ) China Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Canada Dollars ( CAD ) South Africa Rand ( ZAR ) Emirati Dirham ( AED ) Afghan Afghani ( AFN ) Albanian Lek ( ALL ) Armenian Dram ( AMD ) Dutch Guilder ( ANG ) Angolan Kwanza ( AOA ) Argentine Peso ( ARS ) Australian Dollar ( AUD ) Aruban or Dutch Guilder ( AWG ) Azerbaijan Manat ( AZN ) Bosnian Convertible Marka ( BAM ) Barbadian or Bajan Dollar ( BBD ) Bangladeshi Taka ( BDT ) Bulgarian Lev ( BGN ) Bahraini Dinar ( BHD ) Burundian Franc ( BIF ) Bermudian Dollar ( BMD ) Bruneian Dollar ( BND ) Bolivian Bolíviano ( BOB ) Brazilian Real ( BRL ) Bahamian Dollar ( BSD ) Bhutanese Ngultrum ( BTN ) Botswana Pula ( BWP ) Belarusian Ruble ( BYN ) Belizean Dollar ( BZD ) Canadian Dollar ( CAD ) Congolese Franc ( CDF ) Swiss Franc ( CHF ) Chilean Peso ( CLP ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi Offshore ( CNH ) Chinese Yuan Renminbi ( CNY ) Colombian Peso ( COP ) Costa Rican Colon ( CRC ) Cuban Convertible Peso ( CUC ) Cuban Peso ( CUP ) Cape Verdean Escudo ( CVE ) Czech Koruna ( CZK ) Djiboutian Franc ( DJF ) Danish Krone ( DKK ) Dominican Peso ( DOP ) Algerian Dinar ( DZD ) Egyptian Pound ( EGP ) Eritrean Nakfa ( ERN ) Ethiopian Birr ( ETB ) Euro ( EUR ) Fijian Dollar ( FJD ) Falkland Island Pound ( FKP ) British Pound ( GBP ) Georgian Lari ( GEL ) Guernsey Pound ( GGP ) Ghanaian Cedi ( GHS ) Gibraltar Pound ( GIP ) Gambian Dalasi ( GMD ) Guinean Franc ( GNF ) Guatemalan Quetzal ( GTQ ) Guyanese Dollar ( GYD ) Hong Kong Dollar ( HKD ) Honduran Lempira ( HNL ) Croatian Kuna ( HRK ) Haitian Gourde ( HTG ) Hungarian Forint ( HUF ) Indonesian Rupiah ( IDR ) Israeli Shekel ( ILS ) Isle of Man Pound ( IMP ) Indian Rupee ( INR ) Iraqi Dinar ( IQD ) Iranian Rial ( IRR ) Icelandic Krona ( ISK ) Jersey Pound ( JEP ) Jamaican Dollar ( JMD ) Jordanian Dinar ( JOD ) Japanese Yen ( JPY ) Kenyan Shilling ( KES ) Kyrgyzstani Som ( KGS ) Cambodian Riel ( KHR ) Comorian Franc ( KMF ) North Korean Won ( KPW ) South Korean Won ( KRW ) Kuwaiti Dinar ( KWD ) Caymanian Dollar ( KYD ) Kazakhstani Tenge ( KZT ) Lao Kip ( LAK ) Lebanese Pound ( LBP ) Sri Lankan Rupee ( LKR ) Liberian Dollar ( LRD ) Basotho Loti ( LSL ) Libyan Dinar ( LYD ) Moroccan Dirham ( MAD ) Moldovan Leu ( MDL ) Malagasy Ariary ( MGA ) Macedonian Denar ( MKD ) Burmese Kyat ( MMK ) Mongolian Tughrik ( MNT ) Macau Pataca ( MOP ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRO ) Mauritanian Ouguiya ( MRU ) Mauritian Rupee ( MUR ) Maldivian Rufiyaa ( MVR ) Malawian Kwacha ( MWK ) Mexican Peso ( MXN ) Malaysian Ringgit ( MYR ) Mozambican Metical ( MZN ) Namibian Dollar ( NAD ) Nigerian Naira ( NGN ) Nicaraguan Cordoba ( NIO ) Norwegian Krone ( NOK ) Nepalese Rupee ( NPR ) New Zealand Dollar ( NZD ) Omani Rial ( OMR ) Panamanian Balboa ( PAB ) Peruvian Sol ( PEN ) Papua New Guinean Kina ( PGK ) Philippine Piso ( PHP ) Pakistani Rupee ( PKR ) Polish Zloty ( PLN ) Paraguayan Guarani ( PYG ) Qatari Riyal ( QAR ) Romanian Leu ( RON ) Serbian Dinar ( RSD ) Russian Ruble ( RUB ) Rwandan Franc ( RWF ) Saudi Arabian Riyal ( SAR ) Solomon Islander Dollar ( SBD ) Seychellois Rupee ( SCR ) Sudanese Pound ( SDG ) Swedish Krona ( SEK ) Singapore Dollar ( SGD ) Saint Helenian Pound ( SHP ) Sierra Leonean Leone ( SLL ) Somali Shilling ( SOS ) Seborgan Luigino ( SPL ) Surinamese Dollar ( SRD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STD ) Sao Tomean Dobra ( STN ) Salvadoran Colon ( SVC ) Syrian Pound ( SYP ) Swazi Lilangeni ( SZL ) Thai Baht ( THB ) Tajikistani Somoni ( TJS ) Turkmenistani Manat ( TMT ) Tunisian Dinar ( TND ) Tongan Pa'anga ( TOP ) Turkish Lira ( TRY ) Trinidadian Dollar ( TTD ) Tuvaluan Dollar ( TVD ) Taiwan New Dollar ( TWD ) Tanzanian Shilling ( TZS ) Ukrainian Hryvnia ( UAH ) Ugandan Shilling ( UGX ) US Dollar ( USD ) Uruguayan Peso ( UYU ) Uzbekistani Som ( UZS ) Venezuelan Bolívar ( VEF ) Vietnamese Dong ( VND ) Ni-Vanuatu Vatu ( VUV ) Samoan Tala ( WST ) Central African CFA Franc BEAC ( XAF ) Silver Ounce ( XAG ) Gold Ounce ( XAU ) Bitcoin ( XBT ) East Caribbean Dollar ( XCD ) IMF Special Drawing Rights ( XDR ) CFA Franc ( XOF ) Palladium Ounce ( XPD ) CFP Franc ( XPF ) Platinum Ounce ( XPT ) Yemeni Rial ( YER ) South African Rand ( ZAR ) Zambian Kwacha ( ZMW ) Zimbabwean Dollar ( ZWD ) Convert Advertisement Advertise with NZME . Trending in Business Hands off my data ! 15 default privacy settings you should change right now 2 Jun , 2018 3:00pm 11 minutes to read Say no to defaults . A clickable guide to fixing complicated privacy settings . Inside broadcaster Peter Williams ' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun , 2018 1:15pm 2 minutes to read The veteran TV presenter lets Herald Homes inside his St Mary 's Bay abode . Bank 's ruthless move costs couple their business 29 May , 2018 9:03pm 4 minutes to read The couple never missed a single payment . But the bank still seized their property anyway . National Business Sport Property World Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Technology [ w1285 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-strict.dtd '' Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager GET TOP LEVEL ITEMS OnDemand Live TV 1 News Now news Header primary site navigation + search this will not exist at all , purely for mockup purposes Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/burgeMenuItem.esi./news/components/burgerMenuItem ) News Latest New Zealand World Entertainment Sport Latest Rugby League Football Netball Cricket Basketball Golf Tennis Other Sport menu item link menu item icon weather menu item text live streams sub menu item link sub menu item image send us your story 1 NEWS team follow us Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/topMenuItem.sectionName-news.pageType-storypage.isPartOfNews-false.isPartOfSport-false.esi./news/components/topMenuItem ) News primary menu item link Sport primary menu item link Weather primary menu item link Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/weatherWidget.pathName-_content_tvnz_onenews_weather_forecast.esi./news/components/weatherWidget ) arrow North Island Auckland Dannevirke Dargaville Gisborne Hamilton Hastings Kaitaia Levin Masterton Napier New Plymouth Paihia Palmerston North Paraparaumu Rotorua Taumarunui Taupo Tauranga Te Kuiti Thames Tokoroa Whanganui Wellington Whakatane Whangarei South Island Alexandra Ashburton Blenheim Christchurch Dunedin Gore Greymouth Hokitika Invercargill Kaikoura Motueka Nelson Oamaru Queenstown Reefton Timaru Wanaka Westport navHolder navContainer needs to be here for z-indexing relative fixedItem upperNav weather widget dropdown menu . here for animation reasons Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/asSubMenuItem.pageType-storypage.tagPathUrlParam-news_world.namespace-section.esi./news/components/subMenuItem ) Latest primary menu item link New Zealand primary menu item link World primary menu item link Entertainment primary menu item link container for featured tags Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/asRightMenuItem.pageType-storypage.tagPathUrlParam-news_world.namespace-section.esi./news/components/rightMenuItem ) lowerNav navigationHolder header content full width banner advertisement breaking news hook item hidden by default , javascript shows this if the cookie is not present World 'If you 're the man ? ' - Elon Musk casually deletes the Tesla and Spacex Facebook pages after a Twitter user challenged him FIXME should use image servlet Source : Verified Facebook pages of Elon Musk 's rocket company SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla have disappeared , minutes after the Silicon Valley billionaire promised on Twitter to take down the pages when challenged by users . A screenshot graphic showing a Twitter exchange between Elon Musk and other users leading to the billionaire deleting both the SpaceX and Tesla Facebook pages . Source : Twitter/Facebook/1 NEWS composite `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you 're the man ? '' a user tweeted to Tesla chief executive Musk . His response : `` I did n't realise there was one . Will do . '' Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Musk 's personal entrepreneur page was still on Facebook . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on the # deletefacebook hashtag . START OF SCHEMA END OF SCHEMA Start of Brightcove Player End of Brightcove Player storyPage video video The hashtag gained prominence after the world 's largest social network upset users by mishandling data , which ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica , a political consultancy that worked on US President Donald Trump 's 2016 election campaign . `` What 's Facebook ? '' Musk tweeted on Friday . Many users also urged the billionaire to delete the profiles of his companies on Facebook 's photo-sharing app Instagram . `` Instagram 's probably ok ... so long as it stays fairly independent , '' Musk responded . `` I do n't use FB & never have , so do n't think I 'm some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we do n't advertise or pay for endorsements , so ... do n't care . '' START OF SCHEMA END OF SCHEMA Start of Brightcove Player End of Brightcove Player storyPage video video Musk has had run-ins with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Last year , a war of words broke out between Musk and Zuckerberg over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators . When Zuckerberg was asked about Musk 's views on the dangers of robots , he chided `` naysayers '' whose `` doomsday scenarios '' were `` irresponsible '' . In response , Musk tweeted : `` His understanding of the subject is limited . '' Related Space Technology eo relatedContent no more content back to top loading error refresh standard advert LATEST POPULAR FEATURED news latest story stream Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/popularStories/news.esi./news/components/popularStories ) Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/06/02/watch-it-was-like-saving-private-ryan-ex-south-african-cop-co/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-popular.storyStreamItemRank-1.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 00:51 1 Watch : 'It was like Saving Private Ryan ' - South African ex-cop confirms poisoning of All Blacks before 1995 World Cup final Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/06/01/toni-street/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-popular.storyStreamItemRank-2.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 00:58 2 ' A little bit sad ' - Toni Street responds on air to backlash over the six month ’ s maternity leave she ’ s likely to take Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/06/01/shipping-containers/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-popular.storyStreamItemRank-3.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 3 Ship loses 80 containers off NSW coast in wild weather Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/06/02/kosmo/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-popular.storyStreamItemRank-4.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 00:59 4 ' I knew something sinister had happened ' - Kosmo the police dog 's handler describes the night he thought he would lose his partner Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/06/02/watch-sharks-prop-has-absolute-shocker-runs-to-wrong-end-after/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-popular.storyStreamItemRank-5.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 00:15 5 Watch : New Zealander has absolute shocker for Sharks , runs to wrong end of the field during NRL game Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/05/30/daniel/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-featured.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 01:47 'Flat-tyre , Fat-tower , Fa'afoi ' - Breakfast 's Daniel Faitaua recalls shocking attempts at pronouncing his name , as Super Rugby stars encourage Kiwis to say theirs correctly Daniel has also been mistaken for former TVNZ weather presenter turned politician Tamati Coffey . Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/05/30/pusuititi/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-featured.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 01:57 ' I just want Meadow to know that I love her with every bit of my heart ' - cousin 's heartbreaking message to 12-year-old killed following police pursuit Meadow James ' cousin Jahvanaiah said her younger relative had a big life ahead of her . Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/05/30/p-babies/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-featured.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 00:24 Eight pregnant Northland women referred to P treatment course in less than three months Research indicates babies born with P in their systems are smaller and have slower development . Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/05/29/10-injured-after-man-falsely-claims-bomb-on-indonesia-plane/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-featured.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) Raw video : Terrified passengers tumble to the ground off plane 's wing after bomb scare on Indonesian flight Ten passengers on an Indonesian flight preparing to take off from Borneo island were injured after another passenger claimed to have a bomb . Following component is included by DynamicIncludeFilter ( path : /content/tvnz/onenews/story/2018/05/29/aunty-meadow-story/_jcr_content/asStoryStreamItem.storyStreamSection-featured.esi./news/components/storyStreamItem ) 01:41 Watch : Family of 12-year-old girl who died after Palmerston North police pursuit address 'hateful comments ' on social media Meadow James ' aunties say the comments are hurtful and people who do n't know their family should n't judge . Copyright © TVNZ Join the conversation and follow 1 NEWS on Facebook Rolling stories and updates from the 1 NEWS team Download the 1 NEWS app for iPhone , iPad and Android Send us your footage or share your story with us Explore TVNZ OnDemand TVNZ 1 TVNZ 2 TVNZ DUKE TV Guide Live TV 1 News Now News Sport Weather Corporate About TVNZ Careers Sales & Advertising Blacksand Licensing More TVNZ Contact Us Help & FAQs House Rules The Green Room Include the Nielsen analytics START Nielsen Online SiteCensus V6.0 COPYRIGHT 2012 Nielsen Online END Nielsen Online SiteCensus V6.0 [ w1286 ] India Gives UK-Based Cambridge Analytica 7 Days to Name Clients and Data Source - News18 Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) GET Stock English हिन्दी বাংলা मराठी ગુજરાતી தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football Food Photos World Lifestyle TV Shows TV Videos Travel Business Health and Fitness Blogs Podcast Immersives IPL Karnataka Elections Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan English English हिन्दी Hindi বাংলা Bengali मराठी Marathi ગુજરાતી Gujarati தமிழ் Tamil ಕನ್ನಡ Kannada ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Punjabi اردو Urdu മലയാളം Malayalam Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football All Sections LIVE TV Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football Food Photos World Lifestyle TV Shows TV Videos Travel Business Health and Fitness Blogs Podcast Immersives IPL Karnataka Elections Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan Home Photos Politics Opinion Cricket Movies India India Gives UK-Based Cambridge Analytica 7 Days to Name Clients and Data Source E-ticket Holders May Board Trains , Occupy Berths in Cases of 'No Show ' as SC Junks Railways ' Appeal Srinagar Youth Dies After Being Run Over by CRPF Vehicle During Protest PM Modi Unveils Mahatma Gandhi 's Plaque With Former Singaporean Premier Powered by [ w1287 ] HTML Election Commission : No linkage of any voter data with Facebook , says EC chief India News - Times of India Server : 141 [ if lte IE 8 ] [ w1288 ] Start Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) Ads Display Widget Start Ads Display Widget End air quality index air-quality Ads Display Widget Start Ads Display Widget End Politics Karnataka , Kairana debacles make BJP 's mission to penetrate into Telugu states an uphill task Karnataka , Kairana debacles make BJP 's mission to penetrate into Telugu states an uphill task BJP MLAs lament Kairana bypoll loss , use poetry to blame ministers in Yogi Adityanath government Sitaram Yechury slams Narendra Modi government 's four-year rule , says it is characterised by 'loot and lies ' Congress ' VM Sudheeran blames factionalism for party 's defeat in Kerala bypoll , urges leaders to end rivalry Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy admits defeat ahead of no-confidence vote , arch-rival Pedro Sanchez to take over Yogi Adityanath 's leadership under question as BJP continues to be crushed in crucial by elections Sports French Open 2018 : Maria Sharapova returns to Court Philippe Chatrier ; Rafael Nadal eyes 16th win over Richard Gasquet French Open 2018 : Maria Sharapova returns to Court Philippe Chatrier ; Rafael Nadal eyes 16th win over Richard Gasquet International friendlies : Ousmane Dembele scores terrific goal as FIFA World Cup 2018 contenders France beat Italy French Open 2018 : Alexander Zverev , Novak Djokovic move to fourth round with hard-fought wins ; Elina Svitolina bows out French Open 2018 : Novak Djokovic applauds Roberto Bautista Agut for playing at Roland Garros despite mother 's death FIFA World Cup 2018 : Robert Lewandowski says he 's ready to 'do the donkey work ' to help Poland top their group French Open 2018 : I was thinking about lunch and not losing to Damir Dzumhur , says Alexander Zverev after win India Nipah virus : Kerala govt steps up vigil in Kozhikode , Malappuram ; Public Service Commission exams delayed till 16 June Nipah virus : Kerala govt steps up vigil in Kozhikode , Malappuram ; Public Service Commission exams delayed till 16 June Nipah virus : Doctors , nurses in Balussery hospital in Kerala asked to go on leave as precautionary measure Migrants from Jharkhand face threats of trafficking as poverty , government apathy push them to leave state Purulia killings : Another BJP worker found hanging in West Bengal ; NHRC sends notice to state govt Day after Scindia House fire , blaze breaks out at leather company office at Mumbai 's Barrister Nath Pai Road ; one injured Novak Djokovic , Caroline Wozniacki reach last-16 of French Open ; Grigor Dimitrov knocked out on Day 6 World Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un summit is on for 12 June in another twist to high stakes US - North Korea diplomatic negotiation Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un summit is on for 12 June in another twist to high stakes US - North Korea diplomatic negotiation New twist to diplomatic dance : Trump says North Korea summit now on U.S. vetoes U.N. resolution denouncing violence against Palestinians U.S. vetoes UN Security Council resolution denouncing violence against Palestinians U.S. vetoes U.N. Security Council resolution denouncing violence against Palestinians `` We found Russian hit-list of 47 people '' , Ukraine tells allies Business IT firms will have to re-skill two million employees ahead of a full-blooded digital push ; are they prepared ? IT firms will have to re-skill two million employees ahead of a full-blooded digital push ; are they prepared ? INX Media case : CBI summons P Chidambaram ; will question him on 6 June in connection with alleged irregularities Whistleblower in ICICI-Videocon case levels new allegations of wrongdoing against Kochhar , sends letter detailing charges to PM , finance minister The Blue Circle discussion : Gurcharan Das on making a life versus making a living ; people now seek purpose , creativity in jobs PSBs under RBI scanner for poor financial health submit two-year recovery plan to government ICICI-Videocon loan issue : Bank 's Board denies asking CEO Chanda Kochhar to go on leave Entertainment Veere di Wedding producer Rhea Kapoor on casting Kareena , Sonam : I was nervous two mainstream heroines will never act together Veere di Wedding producer Rhea Kapoor on casting Kareena , Sonam : I was nervous two mainstream heroines will never act together Race 3 song Allah Duhai Hai released : Salman , Jacqueline and entire cast sizzle in revamped version of franchise staple Veere Di Wedding movie review : Kareena , Sonam , Swara , Shikha play relatable non-conformists in a fun buddy flick Black Panther claims top honour at Golden Trailer Awards ; Stranger Things , Westworld bag three each IIFA Awards 2018 : Jagga Jasoos tops winners ' list in technical categories ; Tumhari Sulu leads nominations Officer star Nagarjuna believes his father Akkineni Nageswara Rao 's story will work better as a book than biopic F.Cricket England vs Pakistan : Hosts show they remember how to play Test cricket at its best after months of humiliation England vs Pakistan : Hosts show they remember how to play Test cricket at its best after months of humiliation England vs Pakistan : Joe Root and Co end Day 1 at Headingley on solid note after bowling visitors out for 174 Highlights , England vs Pakistan , 2nd Test , Day 1 at Headingley , Full Cricket Score : Hosts trail by 68 runs at stumps India vs Afghanistan : Dinesh Karthik likely to replace Wriddhiman Saha in one-off Test in Bengaluru Former India cricketer Madan Lal , BCCI chief CK Khanna 's wife among those cleared to contest DDCA elections India vs Afghanistan : Rashid Khan is a '30-year-old mind in a 19-year-old body ' says coach Phil Simmons TECH Merger of neutron star may have led to birth of the lowest mass black hole ever found reveal NASA scientists Merger of neutron star may have led to birth of the lowest mass black hole ever found reveal NASA scientists ARM announces Cortex-A76 CPU , Mali-G76 GPU and Mali-V76 video processor for next generation of smartphones New renders of Lenovo Z5 show a selfie camera placed in the centre in the bottom chin : Report SoftBank joins General Motors , will invest $ 2.25 billion in their autonomous vehicle unit Cruise Scientist have found the fossil of 240 million year old lizard which roamed the earth when dinosaurs were still new Vivo NEX name confirmed in a new poster released on Weibo and the device launches on 12 June Photos Videos Shows IPL 2018 container header-bottom Ads Display Widget End It 's A Wrap — Parmanu : The Story of Pokhran stars John Abraham , Diana Penty in conversation with Parul Sharma First Watch Widget End Also Watch Also See Former Cambridge Analytica boss Alexander Nix accepts summons to appear before British lawmakers on 6 June Cambridge Analytica files for bankruptcy in US after it failed to recover from Facebook data scandal Former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton would n't mind giving a chance to be the CEO of Facebook FB Comments FB Comments Tead Ad Script Starts ad spruce ad spruce ends Main RHS Sidebar Video Widget Start It 's A Wrap — Parmanu : The Story of Pokhran stars John Abraham , Diana Penty in conversation with Parul Sharma Top Stories English Hindi Whistleblower in ICICI-Videocon case levels new allegations of wrongdoing against Kochhar , sends letter detailing charges to PM , finance minister French Open 2018 : Alexander Zverev , Novak Djokovic move to fourth round with hard-fought wins ; Elina Svitolina bows out In Kairana , a stronger opposition and a verdict for change : Tabassum Hasan emerges as face of united Opposition Narendra Modi in Singapore : PM calls China 'pivotal partner ' in trade , says differences must not become disputes Veere Di Wedding movie review : Kareena , Sonam , Swara , Shikha play relatable non-conformists in a fun buddy flick Pakistan 's move to 'merge ' FATA with rest of country may be smokescreen to hide attempt to quell Pashtun protests पश्चिम बंगाल में विपक्ष का हाल : सत्ता का रंग आज भी लाल है , बस चेहरा बदला है पश्चिम बंगाल : सत्ताधारी पार्टी निरंकुश बन सकती है क्योंकि स्थानीय मीडिया दब्बू है और विपक्ष सहमा है किस्सा-ए-आम : आम के दशहरी , चौसा और लंगड़ा बनने की कहानी जानना चाहेंगे ? रेप महज ' बैड सेक्स ' नहीं , अभी तो पूरी लड़ाई बाकी है कैराना उपचुनाव : बदलाव चाहती है जनता , मजबूत विपक्ष से होगा मुमकिन Cricket Scores Current & Recent Upcoming Pakistan in England , 2 Test Series , 2018 ENG Vs PAK Live Now West Indies and ICC World XI in England , 2018 WI Vs WRL West Indies beat ICC World XI by 72 runs Indian Premier League , 2018 CHE Vs HYD Chennai Super Kings beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 8 wickets Indian Premier League , 2018 HYD Vs KOL Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 14 runs Pakistan in England , 2 Test Series , 2018 ENG Vs PAK Pakistan beat England by 9 wickets Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 MALW vs INDW - Jun 3rd , 2018 , 07:00 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 BANW vs SLW - Jun 3rd , 2018 , 07:00 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 PAKW vs THAW - Jun 3rd , 2018 , 11:30 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 BANW vs PAKW - Jun 4th , 2018 , 07:00 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 INDW vs THAW - Jun 4th , 2018 , 07:00 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 MALW vs SLW - Jun 4th , 2018 , 11:30 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 PAKW vs SLW - Jun 6th , 2018 , 07:00 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 MALW vs THAW - Jun 6th , 2018 , 07:00 AM IST New Zealand Women in Ireland , Only T20I , 2018 IREW vs NZW - Jun 6th , 2018 , 08:30 AM IST Women 's Asia Cup T20 , 2018 INDW vs BANW - Jun 6th , 2018 , 11:30 AM IST Ads Display Widget Start Ads Display Widget End side-content Ads Display Widget End RHS Sidebar .container .contentMain .content Start : Addng Ads Footer Site Index हिंदी फर्स्टपोस्ट About Firstpost RSS Twitter Facebook Sections Front Page Politics Sports India World Business Life Entertainment News F.Cricket Tech Photos Videos Plus First Cricket Cricket Live Score Commonwealth Games 2018 IPL 2018 Karnataka Assembly Election 2018 Budget 2018 Tax Calculator Budget 2018 Live TV Laureus World Sports Awards 2017 New Delhi Mumbai Photos F. Pedia Videos FP Exclusives Video Room Weather Network 18 sites In.com Moneycontrol Burrp Topper Learning Overdrive IBN Live News18 Sample Papers Online Business Technology News MTV India Online Shopping in India CAprep18 F. Shows E-Learning Franchise Opportunity Tools RSS Feeds Apps iOS Android Copyright © 2018 . Firstpost - All Rights Reserved . Terms of use Privacy wrapper jQuery BetterCampaign Goal Tracker BetterCampaign Goal Tracker MENU TOGGLE SCRIPT FH Analytics End FH Analytics Code [ w1289 ] Left Bar Navigation India Politics Crime All India World South Asia Asia Middle East Africa Europe Americas Oceania Metros Delhi Kolkata Mumbai In Other Cities Business Economy Market Companies Autos In Other News Opinion Edit Oped Columnists Interview of the Week Reporter 's Diary The Age Debate Here and Now Sports Cricket Tennis Football In Other sports Technology Mobiles & Tabs Gadgets In Other news Reviews Entertainment Bollywood Hollywood Movie Reviews TV Music In Other News Photos Life Health Fashion Food Travel Art Relationship More Features Newsmakers Books Science Horoscope Age on Sunday Delhi Age Decaf Mumbai Age Discourse 360 Degree Editors ' Picks Just In Menu e-Paper Age on Sunday Horoscope ↑ Grab this Headline Animator Saturday , Jun 02 , 2018 Last Update : 09:38 AM IST Home India World Metros Business Opinion Sports Technology Entertainment Photos Life Newsmakers More Books Science Horoscope Age on Sunday Delhi Age Decaf Mumbai Age Discourse 360 Degree Editors ' Picks Just In Dynamic Live Breaking Marquee Dynamic Story Detail Technology , In Other news Daring move : Elon Musk deletes Tesla , SpaceX Facebook pages REUTERS Published : Mar 24 , 2018 , 9:37 am IST Updated : Mar 24 , 2018 , 9:36 am IST Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Verified Facebook pages of Elon Musk ’ s rocket company SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla Inc ( TSLA.O ) disappeared on March 23 , minutes after the Silicon Valley billionaire promised on Twitter to take down the pages when challenged by users . `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you 're the man ? '' a user tweeted to Tesla Chief Executive Musk . His response : `` I did n't realize there was one . Will do . '' Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on the # deletefacebook tag . The hashtag gained prominence after the world ’ s largest social network upset users by mishandling data , which ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica - a political consultancy that worked on U.S. President Donald Trump ’ s 2016 election campaign . “ What ’ s Facebook ? ” Musk tweeted . Many users also urged the billionaire to delete the profiles of his companies on Facebook ’ s photo-sharing app Instagram . “ Instagram ’ s probably ok ... so long as it stays fairly independent , ” Musk responded . “ I don ’ t use FB & never have , so don ’ t think I ’ m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we don ’ t advertise or pay for endorsements , so ... don ’ t care. ” Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Last year , a war of words broke out between Musk and Zuckerberg over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators . When Zuckerberg was asked about Musk 's views on the dangers of robots , he chided `` naysayers '' whose `` doomsday scenarios '' were `` irresponsible . '' In response , Musk tweeted : “ His understanding of the subject is limited. ” elon musk , facebook , twitter , spacex , tesla AsianAge Allpages Top Leaderboard taboola div taboola div /1754161/AsianAge_Allpages_Top_Rectangle_300x250 ADVERTISEMENT Dynamic Most Popular MOST POPULAR 1 India 's 1st national sports university to be set up in Manipur 2 Here are 3 ways human civilisation could go extinct 3 Woman born without vagina becomes first in world to have one made out of fish skin 4 Shameful we did n't know about the struggle of Sandeep Singh : Diljit Dosanjh 5 Hunter who killed wild buffalo is gored to death by another member of herd more popular /1754161/AsianAge_Allpages_Top_Rectangle_300x250 /1754161/AsianAge_Allpages_RHS_Rectangle_300x250 ADVERTISEMENT Editors ' Picks Salman Khan turns godfather again , launches Zaheer Iqbal ; know more rating Watch : Kamli Katrina does Swag Se Swagat with her dance at IPL closing ceremony rating Watch : Did Deepika just invite Anil Kapoor for her and Ranveer ’ s wedding ? rating Hera Pheri 3 is on , and it ’ s expected to be Total Dhamaal with Akshay , Suniel , Paresh rating Happy birthday Suhana Khan : Why she 's best friend material and actor Bollywood needs rating more popular /1754161/DC_Allpages_RHS_extrarectangle_300x250 /1754161/AsianAge_Allpages_TopRight_Rectangle_300x250 ADVERTISEMENT Dynamic Random Top Galleries Entertainment Sanju trailer launch : Ranbir all smiles with Vicky , Sonam , Dia 2 days to go : Veere Di Wedding , Bhavesh Joshi teams go out in full steam After nearly a decade , Salman Khan is back to show his Power of 10 What ’ s cooking ? Harshvardhan takes Taapsee out on a ride in Mumbai Deepika , Hrithik , Sidharth , others glam it up in their stylish best at event Busy bees : John holds Parmanu screening , Kareena , VDW team promote film taboola right div taboola right div AsianAge Allpages Top Leaderboard Home Deccan Chronicle Andhrabhoomi Financial Chronicle About Us Contact Us Feedback E-Paper Privacy Policy Copyright © 2016 - 2018 The Asian Age . for strory detail for strory detail Vuukle old code end of Vuukle Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag [ w1290 ] [ w1291 ] IS HOPEFUL 2 June 2018 09:39 AM Subscribe Donate हिंदी top date section ends- navigation- ☰ POLITICS OPINION WORLD LIFE SPORT BORDER SOUTHASIA GENDER YOUTH PHOTO CREDIT MIMANSA SAHAY -section S.G.VOMBATKERE 24 MARCH , 2018 Data Protection With Concrete Walls and Uncrackable Encryption : Really ? Database safe behind 5ft walls and armed guards ! Data is being acquired without much thought as to its security or end-use . Take for instance , the National Cadet Corps ( NCC ) collecting the names , mobile numbers and e-mail IDs of 1.3 million young boys and girls so that the PM can interact with them via the Narendra Modi App . [ “ For chat with PM Modi , NCC collects mobile , email IDs of 13 lakh cadets ” ; http : //indianexpress.com/article/india/for-interaction-with-pm-narendra-modi-ncc-collects-mobile-email-ids-of-13-lakh-cadets-5108037/ ; The Indian Express ; March 23 , 2018 ] . This will create a database which will enable the PM to interact with “ all ( NCC ) cadets across the country ” . The obvious question is , will 1.3 million NCC Cadets have the honour and privilege to interact with their PM , and will the PM , amidst his busy schedules have the time to interact with more than a handful of Cadets ? In the absence of laws concerning data security , and with all critical IT hardware and software being purchased from international vendors , the security of the NCC database is questionable , howsoever unquestionable be the intention of its creation . However , there will surely be some habitually suspicious persons who might wonder whether such a database could be used for political purposes . The security of databases depends upon the understanding of what constitutes data and how it is acquired , compiled , secured , handled , used and transferred . It is no secret that the IT-knowledge of some persons of the higher age groups is questionable . Proof of this is the statement of the Union government ’ s learned Attorney General Shri K.K.Venugopal , assuring the Hon ’ ble Supreme Court that the Aadhaar database is safe because it is in a secure building within the Manesar complex surrounded by 13-feet high and 5-feet thick concrete walls with armed guards . One can not help admiring the restraint of the Hon ’ ble Supreme Court bench in not laughing out loud . But such a mindset is fact , and one shudders to think about the compromised privacy of 1.3 million youth who have joined the NCC . But how could a compromised database be a risk ? Let us recall Cambridge Analytica harvesting the data of 50 million Facebook users to prepare their psychological profiles . Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg promised to review the Facebook App , and apologized for a major breach of trust in not protecting data , even going so far as to say , “ ... if we can ’ t protect your data , we don ’ t deserve to serve you ” . [ “ Zuckerberg apologises for ‘ major breach of trust ’ ” ; The Hindu , Bengaluru ; March 23 , 2018 ; page 1 ] . In connection with the security of the Aadhaar database , Shri Ajay Bhushan Pandey , CEO of the UIDAI , assured the Hon ’ ble Supreme Court that “ Aadhaar data has been secured by a 2048-bit encryption key that will take a supercomputer more than the age of universe , or over 13 billion years , to crack ” . [ “ Will Take Supercomputer `` Age Of Universe '' To Hack Into Data : Aadhaar Boss “ ; https : //www.ndtv.com/india-news/uidai-ceo-aadhaar-chief-will-take-supercomputer-age-of-universe-to-hack-into-data-1827384 ] . That is a surprising statement , especially as it comes from a custodian of what is arguably the world ’ s largest public database . It is difficult to decide whether this contention originates from hubris or ignorance , or whether the UIDAI CEO reckons he can take the Hon ’ ble Supreme Court for a ride . Coming along with the Union government ’ s idea of data security behind concrete walls as articulated by the learned AG , it will surely make India , the upcoming IT giant , an international laughing stock . It is devoutly to be hoped that our PM will not be placed in the nationally embarrassing position of rueing the Narendra Modi App operated by the PMO , if the database of 1.3 million youth is clandestinely used for psychological profiling a la Cambridge Analytica , or otherwise misused . As our Pradhan Sevak , he can not resile from serving the nation if the App in his name goes haywire or the thoughtlessly created NCC database is cracked open , notwithstanding the security of the PMO premises and the advice of persons like the UIDAI CEO . ( Major General S.G. Vombatkere , VSM , retired as Additional DG Discipline & Vigilance in Army HQ AG 's Branch . His area of interest is strategic and development-related issues ) . -Stream STREAM story 1 - SEEMA MUSTAFA & VENKATESH KESARI ANUBHAV CHAKRABORTY & MAJID ALAM HARSHITA CHHATLANI & S.M . SERAJ ALI ASHUTOSH VASHIST S.G.VOMBATKERE story 2 - -Related portion - RELATED story 1 - THE CITIZENS KEEP THE CITIZEN INDEPENDENT . DONATE . ABOUT CONTRIBUTORS CONTACT ARCHIVES COMMENT POLICY PRIVACY RIGHTS SITEMAP [ w1292 ] Google Analytics Content Experiment code End of Google Analytics Content Experiment code elon musk : Elon Musk deletes Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX after challenged on Twitter , Auto News , ET Auto Javascript Variables required for the project in any section Javascript file Includes section ( Only Important Ones go here.. ) Top Band NEWS SITES Retail News Health News Telecom News Energy News IT News Real Estate News Brand Equity Technology News CFO News IT Security News Top Band ETAuto.com ETAuto Home News Passenger Vehicle Commercial Vehicle Two Wheelers Components Automotive Industry Tyres Aftermarket Policy Auto Technology People Movement New Launches Oil & Lubes Raw Material Financial Results Auto Finance Features Trends Autopreneur ETAuto TV IndustrySpeak Interviews Autologue ETAuto Insights International Careers Data & Analytics Social Analytics Reports ETAutolytics Jobs ETAutoTV Brand Solutions Simulation & Testing Congress 2018 For Intelligent Design & Development Auto Expo 2018 Special Exclusive News , Updates , Photos & Videos ETAuto CV Conclave Gearing Up for a mega shift EV Conclave Gearing up for challenges & opportunities ET Auto EnvironRise Powering Sustainability IRF World Road Meeting 2017 IRF World Road Meeting 2017 ETAuto Retail Forum Gearing up for the big shift ET Auto EnvironRiseAwards Awards for Making Indian Cities Smart ETAuto Digital Dealer & After Market Conclave Leveraging Digital for Customer Acquisition & Retention Passenger Vehicle Commercial Vehicle Two Wheelers Components May sales Industry Consumer Aftermarket Policy People Movement New Launches Automotive Tyres Auto Finance Auto Technology Oil & Lubes Raw Material Financial Results More Auto News Latest Auto News Industry Industry » elon musk Twitter spacex silicon valley facebook Elon Musk deletes Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX after challenged on Twitter Newsletter Verified Facebook pages of Elon Musk 's rocket company SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla Inc disappeared on Friday , minutes after the Silicon Valley billionaire promised on Twitter to take down the pages when challenged by users . `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you 're the man ? '' a user tweeted to Tesla Chief Executive Musk . His response : `` I did n't realize there was one . Will do . '' Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on the # deletefacebook tag . The hashtag gained prominence after the world 's largest social network upset users by mishandling data , which ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica - a political consultancy that worked on U.S. President Donald Trump 's 2016 election campaign . `` What 's Facebook ? '' Musk tweeted . Many users also urged the billionaire to delete the profiles of his companies on Facebook 's photo-sharing app Instagram . `` Instagram 's probably ok ... so long as it stays fairly independent , '' Musk responded . `` I do n't use FB & never have , so do n't think I 'm some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we do n't advertise or pay for endorsements , so ... do n't care . '' Also Read : World 's top wealth fund says opposed Musk 's $ 2.6 billion pay deal Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Last year , a war of words broke out between Musk and Zuckerberg over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators . When Zuckerberg was asked about Musk 's views on the dangers of robots , he chided `` naysayers '' whose `` doomsday scenarios '' were `` irresponsible . '' RELATED Newsletter Tags : Industry , elon musk , Twitter , spacex , silicon valley , facebook ... ... ... ... ... . Set request data ... ... ... ... ... ... . Recommended by Colombia Subscribe Subscribe ETAuto Newsletter 150000+ Industry Leaders already read it everyday /Subscribe /7176/ETAuto/ETAuto_Home/ETAuto_Home_ATF_300 /7176/ETAuto/ETAuto_ROS/ETAuto_ROS_300x250 /7176/ETAuto/ETAuto_ArticleShow/ETAuto_AS_BTF_30 This Week This Month Why Indian carmakers are ditching diesel models and focusing on petrol cars India and China steer Tata Motors growth globally Tata Motors plans Esops for 200 execs India not the only country facing EV related challenges India delays plan to roll out 10,000 electric cars to 2019 HMSI inches closer to Hero MotoCorp to become No . 1 two-wheeler seller Top 10 Selling Passenger vehicles in April 2018 ; Maruti Alto slips to the third position Maruti Suzuki calls back 52686 units of Swift , Baleno to replace brake vacuum hose Life tax on vehicles to be levied on invoice price , says Hyderabad HC Tata Motors stops production of Indica and Indigo This Week This Month India and China steer Tata Motors growth globally Tata Motors plans Esops for 200 execs India not the only country facing EV related challenges Tata Motors signs MoU with Maha govt to promote e-mobility HMSI inches closer to Hero MotoCorp to become No . 1 two-wheeler seller Life tax on vehicles to be levied on invoice price , says Hyderabad HC Electric Vehicle Reality Check : Talk Versus Action Tata Motors to sell defence , aerospace business to Tata Advanced Systems Changing auto industry landscape : Will India miss or catch the bus ? Best Cars under 5 Lakh Top 10 Bikes Auto Expo 2018 BS III Vehicles List Top 10 Cars We have updated our terms and conditions and privacy policy Click `` Continue '' to accept and continue with ET Auto Accept the updated privacy & cookie policy Dear user , The EconomicTimes.com privacy and cookie policy has been updated to align with the new data regulations in European Union . Please review and accept these changes below to continue using the website . You can see our privacy policy & our cookie list below . We use cookies to ensure the best experience for you on our website . If you choose to ignore this message , we 'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on ET Auto . Analytics Necessary Newsletter Name Provider Expiry Type Purpose Google Analytics Google 1 Year HTTPS To track visitors to the site , their origin & behaviour . Name Provider Expiry Type Purpose optout Times Internet 1 day HTTPS Stores the user 's cookie consent state for the current domain PHPSESSID Times Internet 1 day HTTPS Stores user 's preferences accessCode Times Internet 2.5 Hours HTTPS To serve content relevant to a region peuuid Times Internet 7 days HTTPS Uniquely identify each user peuuid Times Internet 1 Year Browser Fingerprinting to uniquely identify client browsers Name Purpose Daily Newsletter Receive daily list of important news Promo Mailers Receive information about events , industry , etc . I 've read & accepted the terms and conditions spnsr END Hot Trends › 2018 Hyundai Creta Price 2018 Honda Amaze Price Triumph Tiger 1200 Brezza AMT Mahindra XUV 500 Ford Freestyle BMW X3 Maruti Suzuki Ignis Price Jeep Compass Baleno RS Price Editor 's Picks › Hyundai Motor sales increase by 7.14 % in May 2018 Emboldened by Jeep Compass success , FCA to make sub-4 metre SUV and 3-row mid-size SUV , for India Complete Auto Sales Analysis of May'18 : Sector maintains positive growth though PV retails slowdown TVS Motor Company posts 10 % sales growth in May 2018 Better Fuel Efficiency : Polymers to lend helping hand Tata Motors May sales surge 58 % to 54,295 units Ford India posts 11.42 % rise in sales in May 2018 Mahindra Electric , Zoomcar to offer self-drive EVs in Mumbai Mahindra & Mahindra May sales up 12 % at 46,849 vehicles Royal Enfield achieves 23 % growth in total motorcycle sales in May 2018 Features › Trends IndustrySpeak International Careers Data & Analytics Jobs ETAuto TV Autopreneur Interviews ETAuto Insights Data Reports Other B2B News Sites › Retail News Health News Telecom News Energy News IT News Real Estate News Marketing & Advertising News Technology News CFO News IT Security News Footer About Us / Contact Us / Advertise with us / Newsletter / RSS Feeds / Embed ETAuto.com Widgets on your Website / Invite Friends / Enroll Company Employees Privacy Policy / Terms & Conditions / Guest-Post Guidelines / Sitemap / Copyright © 2018 ETAuto.com . All Rights Reserved . /Footer share scripts *************************************************** # # # # # # Added By Ajit Rajput # # # # # # # # # # # # for mobile nav GadCode ****** ETB2B platform specific script ****** [ w1293 ] [ w1294 ] Start GDPR cookies policy By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them . You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them . End GDPR cookies policy MAIN WARP INNER HEADER HEADER TOP PANEL TOP MENU Home Markets Companies Opinion Specials PF Portfolio My Page Multimedia IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Photo Gallery Video Gallery Home Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today 's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls TOP MENU END BS APPS iPad iPhone Android Wap BS PRODUCTS Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books Today 's Paper BS E-Paper Bs Learning , Change Password Subscribe Sign out Change Password Manage My Account Sign out SIGN IN Subscribe TOP PANEL END LOGO BS LOGO BS LOGO END LOGO END SECOND MENU SECOND MENU END Latest News Ticker Start JUST IN CBI summons AirAsia CEO Tony Fernandes in licence grant matter Engineers using robots to dismantle practice of manual scavenging in India Christian Dior settles plagiarism dispute with People Tree 's Orijit Sen Farmers dump milk , vegetables and fruits on the roads in mass protest Delhi , J & K on high alert over possible Fidayeen attack on security forces Uttarakhand cloudburst : Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Pauri , Tehri ; updates Fire breaks out in Mumbai Income Tax office ; no casualties reported UP Dy CM kicks up 'Ramayana ' storm , claims Sita was a 'test-tube baby' Govt takes note of home buyers , builders problem ; sets up advisory panels INX media case : CBI asks Chidambaram to appear for questioning on June 6 News Stock Quote Authors Topic Video Latest News Ticker end Latest News Ticker Start Latest News Ticker end HEADER END You are here : Home » Current Affairs » News » National HEADER END Change for Market Tags START Change for Market Tags END Country Code=US HEADER END MAIN CONTENT AREA /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 Move Video Embed code Top if Exist Start Move Video Embed code Top if Exist End MAIN CONTENT AREA END FOOTER MORE ON MARKETS : LEFT CONTENT Quick Links Stock Market Live Portfolio Commodity Market Upcoming IPO Personal Finance Stock Market News Derivatives Mutual Funds Gold Price Sensex RIGHT CONTENT Browse STOCK Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z RIGHT CONTENT END Index Stocks Adani Ports Asian Paints Axis Bank B P C L Bajaj Auto Bajaj Finance Ltd Bajaj Finserv Bharti Airtel Bharti Infra . Cipla Coal India Dr Reddy 's Labs Eicher Motors GAIL ( India ) Grasim Inds H D F C HCL Technologies HDFC Bank Hero Motocorp Hind . Unilever Hindalco Inds . Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd ICICI Bank Indiabulls Housing Finance Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. IndusInd Bank Infosys ITC Kotak Mah . Bank Larsen & Toubro Lupin M & M Maruri Suzuki NTPC O N G C Power Grid Corpn Reliance Inds . St Bk of India Sun Pharma . Inds . Tata Motors Tata Motors-DVR Tata Steel TCS Tech Mahindra Titan Company UltraTech Cement Ltd UPL Ltd Wipro Yes Bank Zee Entertainment RIGHT CONTENT END TRENDING ON BS # Markets # BSWeekend # BSTech # GST # BSSpecial Copyrights © 2018 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved . From BS Website Home Companies Markets Opinion Politics Technology Specials Personal Finance Latest News Today 's Paper RBI Policy General News General Videos General Photo Gallery Events Authors Education About us About Us Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy Disclaimer Investor Communication List of our GST registration number Support & Contact Partner with Us Careers Advertise with Us Contact Us Feedback Browser Support Sitemap Subscribe E-Paper BS Magazines Portfolio Tracker BS Products Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books B2B Connect iPhone iPad android wap BS Banking Round Table 2017 BS Fund Cafe 2017 Budget Insight Out Election Karnataka Election 2018 IPL ipl 2018 Connect with BS Facebook Google+ Linkedin Twitter Youtube RSS google_left_120x600 Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of `` Business Standard Premium Services '' As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include : Access Exclusive content - articles , features & opinion pieces Weekly Industry/Genre specific newsletters - Choose multiple industries/genres Access to 17 plus years of content archives Set Stock price alerts for your portfolio and watch list and get them delivered to your e-mail box End of day news alerts on 5 companies ( via email ) NEW : Get seamless access to WSJ.com at a great price . No additional sign-up required . Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS . Kindly visit the to discover the benefits of this programme . Enjoy Reading ! Team Business Standard Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel : Home Page , publisher : default , Ad Dimension : Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel : Home Page , publisher : default , Ad Dimension : Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 Notifications For Free Users FOOTER END Google Analytics Start Google Analytics End Comscore start Comscore End RUM Wrapper from Akamai 's start RUM Wrapper from Akamai 's End Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code Subscription band - Start Subscription band - Start [ w1295 ] HTML Did Cambridge Analytica Try To Double Cross Congress Ahead Of Lok Sabha Elections ? pay-mouse over pay-mouse over for q-popup for q-popup Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel : OL_LeaderBoard_970x90 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : LeaderBoard_970x90 - 970 x 90 end ZEDO for channel : OL_LeaderBoard_970x90 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : LeaderBoard_970x90 - 970 x 90 Magazines CURRENT ISSUE COVER STORY NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS FEATURES Book Reviews Cover Stories Documents Essays Extracts Interviews Opinions Portraits Profiles REGULARS LEADER LETTERS PAR AVION SEVEN DAYS DEEP THROAT BIZTRO TRACK 2 EAT , PRAY , LIVE THE SKED THE REVIEWS TRENDING DIARY IN & AROUND SPORTS BOOKS PREVIOUS ISSUES Money Traveller Business Hindi Archives Subscription Login TOP SEARCH MOBILE HEADER FIRST HEADER # mobile_nav Login Register Current Issue National International Business Most Read Features Book reviews Cover Stories Documents Essays Interviews Opinions Portraits Profiles Regulars Leader Letters Par Avion Seven Days Deep Throat Biztro Track 2 Eat , Pray , Live The Sked The Reviews Trending Diary Sports Books Previous Issues Follow # mobile_nav FIRST HEADER SECOND HEADER Subscribe MOBILE HEADER The Website NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS SPORT ART & ENTERTAINMENT BOOKS & CULTURE SOCIETY web_exclusive main wrap - Floater Div Did Cambridge Analytica Try To Double Cross Congress Ahead Of Lok Sabha Elections ? Delhi HC Sets Aside EC 's Recommendation On AAP MLAs In Office For Profit Case Delhi HC Grants Bail To Karti Chidambaram - Floater Div ﻿ 23 March 2018 Last Updated at 2:41 pm National Did Cambridge Analytica Try To Double Cross Congress Ahead Of Lok Sabha Elections ? Both BJP and Congress have denied any association with the data management firm . Outlook Web Bureau Image Section File Photo Image Section Mail Print Share A A A increase text size RELATED STORY RELATED STORY Amid speculations of British data consultant Cambridge Analytica 's ( CA ) intervention in the Indian politics , co-founder of its go-to company in India Strategic Communications Laboratories ( SCL ) said that the firm played a significant role ahead of 2014 elections . In an interview to the NDTV , Avnish Rai said that there could have been a posible plot to influence voters . Rai , who is a listed director of the 6-year-old company along with JDU leader 's son Amrish Tyagi , were then already partners in another firm Ovleno Business Intelligence ( OBI ) that engaged in political management . A scandal erupted last weekend when a whistleblower revealed that British data consultant CA had created psychological profilesof 50 million Facebook users via a personality prediction app . FOR PAYWALL Continue FREE with Ads READ STORY Pay Rs . 1 to Read Without Ads READ STORY red with ads more Ã¢â‚¬Å “ She comes from a space called Ã¢â‚¬Ëœ real IndiaÃ¢â‚¬â „ ¢ that is finding takers.Ã¢â‚¬ï¿½ Mahesh Bhatt , Producer START SHORT TAGS WIDGET START SHORT TAGS WIDGET END SHORT TAGS WIDGET END SHORT TAGS WIDGET READ MORE IN : National News Analysis OUTLOOK 23 March , 2018 COMMENT SECTION START COMMENT SECTION END COMMENT SECTION Post a Comment new You are not logged in , To comment please Login / Register or use Login with Logout COMMENT SECTION NEW WIDGET Next Story : Delhi HC Sets Aside EC 's Recommendation On AAP MLAs In Office For Profit Case NEW WIDGET Download the Outlook ​Magazines App . Six magazines , wherever you go ! Play Store and App Store MORE FROM AUTHOR More From Outlook Web Bureau Vijay Mallya Resigns As Force India F1 Director , Seeks Appeal In Assets Case Sahara India Pariwar boss Subrata Roy remains a director of the company headquartered at Silverstone in the East Midlands region of England . CBI Summons P Chidambaram For Questioning In INX Media Case On June 6 Chidambaram 's son Karti Chidambaram was also arrested in the matter for allegedly receiving funds to the tune of Rs 10 lakh in the case . Actor-Producer Arbaaz Khan Summoned By Police In IPL Betting Probe Arbaaz , brother of Bollywood superstar Salman Khan , has to appear before the Police on Saturday to join the investigation . MORE FROM AUTHOR START OUTBRAIN WIDGET END OUTBRAIN WIDGET THE LATEST ISSUE Iframe tag : begin ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner1 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 end ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner1 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 PHOTO NEWS BLOGS LATEST Congress , JD ( S ) To Fight 2019 Elections Together Farmers Begin 10-Day Protest , Block Milk , Vegetable Supply Pranab Mukherjee ’ s Presence At RSS Event Will Help Clear Sangh ’ s Bad Image : Govindacharya more Wonderful , Precise And Very Cool : How Do Our Money Up-Chucking Machines Work ? `` I 'm Only Passing Through '' 10 Leonard Cohen Songs That You Must Listen To Blackout For NDTV Stirs The Media Daily Curator : The Dominion Of Misunderstood Men Over Headlines Daily Curator : Of Holes Being Poked Into The Bhopal Encounter And The Origins Of Chyawanprash Watch : Viral Video Has Man Lighting Up A Line Of Crackers Attached To His Mouth more Thoothukudi Protests : Madras High Court Asks Govt To Explain What Led To Police Firing That Killed 13 No Bids For Air India So Far , Deadline Tomorrow Why Kumar Has No ‘ Vishwas ’ In Arvind Kejriwal more Iframe tag : begin ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner2 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 end ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner2 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 Iframe tag : begin ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner3 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 end ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner3 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 MOST POPULAR MOST VIEWED MOST COMMENTED FROM Website Won ’ t Take Down The Dowry-Calculator Site : Tanul Thakur Farmers Launch 10-Day Protest , Block Milk , Vegetable Supply To Markets Congress Dares Shiv Sena To Break Alliance With BJP Congress , JD ( S ) To Fight 2019 Lok Sabha Elections As Part Of Alliance more FROM WEBSITE Bypolls Verdict : BJP Strategists Run Back To Drawing Board As Party Loses Majority In Lok Sabha No Bids For Air India So Far , Deadline Tomorrow : Aviation Secretary Naveen Got The Bullets That Killed Gauri Lankesh : SIT Files First Charge Sheet In Journalist Murder Case People Missing An 'Educated PM ' Like Manmohan Singh : Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal more Iframe tag : begin ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner4 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 end ZEDO for channel : OL_RHS_300x250_Banner4 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Medium Rectangle - 300 x 250 - Mobile Widget 1 FOOTER BANNER Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel : OL_HP_Footer_970X90 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : LeaderBoard_970x90 - 970 x 90 end ZEDO for channel : OL_HP_Footer_970X90 , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : LeaderBoard_970x90 - 970 x 90 FOOTER BANNER ABOUT US CONTACT US SUBSCRIBE ADVERTISING RATES COPYRIGHT & DISCLAIMER OSM Awards Sustainable Plastics Newsscroll OUTLOOK TOPICS : A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or just type initial letters CURRENT ISSUE COVER STORY NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS BOOK REVIEWS DOCUMENTS ESSAYS EXTRACTS INTERVIEWS OPINIONS PORTRAITS PROFILES INVEST SPEND SAVE EARN INSURE ASK THE BIG STORY SPECIALS PERSPECTIVE PIXSTORY ENTERPRISE STRATEGY MARKETS C'EST LA VIE TRAVELOGUES WEEKEND BREAKS HOLIDAYS WITH OT PHOTO FEATURES HOTELS GUIDEBOOKS FACEBOOK TWITTER INSTAGRAM YOUTUBE RSS paylo SIDE BANNER Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel : Skinning on Ol , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Skinning - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel : Skinning on Ol , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Skinning - 1 x 1 Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel : Intertitial_OL , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Intertitial - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel : Intertitial_OL , publisher : Outlook , Ad Dimension : Intertitial - 1 x 1 [ w1296 ] ‘ Worried About Data Breach ’ : CEC OP Rawat Ahead of Poll Panel Meet - The Quint DNS prefetch AMP Support Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) /52868882/LB_Top /52868882/LB_Top mobile TheQuint BloombergQuint Hindi Quint Neon Fit TheQuint Big Story Hot News Videos Man Dies After CRPF Vehicle Crushes Him During Srinagar Protest Latest News : Man Dies After Being Hit By CRPF Vehicle in Srinagar ‘ Veere Di Wedding ’ : Dial M for Marriage Farmers in 7 States Call 10-Day Strike , Supplies Likely to be Hit Super Fan Sudhir Gautam Hosted by MS Dhoni For Lunch Full List of Players Sold at Pro Kabaddi League Auction This Lady Just Brutally Took Down ‘ Veere Di Wedding ’ My Misadventures With a Whisky-Drinking Sanghi in Gujarat Who is the Mysterious Dancing Uncle Going Viral on Social Media ? Close hamburger-icon News My Report Neon Entertainment Voices Sports Fit Lifestyle News Videos Videos Tech and Auto Explainers Photos Gender Opinion The Quint Lab Infographics Graphic Novels Switch To Hindi Subscribe to Newsletter Download Apps Advertise With Us Write For Us react-text : 139 /react-text react-text : 142 /react-text react-text : 144 /react-text react-text : 146 /react-text react-text : 147 /react-text Big Story Hot News Videos Short DoQs Documentaries Q Rant Cab Mein Charcha Pammy Kaur 's Love Letter Q Dekhein Breaking Views 360 VR News Videos Sections News My Report Neon Entertainment Voices Sports Fit Lifestyle News Videos @ TheQuint About Us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Bloomberg Quint Quintype Quint Hindi /52868882/Q_OutOfPage_01 [ w1298 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' class fe.views.page_modules.Head class fe.views.head_modules.Title Data watchdog search of Cambridge Analytica office ... Daily Mail Online class fe.views.preload.Preload class fe.views.dynamic_ad_control.DynamicAdControl dynamic_ad_control_url : http : //mads.dailymail.co.uk/v4/us/wires/pa/article/other class fe.views.ads_preload.AdsPreload ad : http : //mads.dailymail.co.uk/v4/us/wires/pa/article/other/headertags . class fe.views.head_modules.MetaGoogleAds google_ad_section_start ( name=s1 ) google_ad_section_end ( name=s1 ) class fe.views.head_modules.MetaAddOns class fe.views.meta_properties.MetaProperties class fe.views.meta_links.MetaLinks class fe.views.head_modules.CssDesktop [ if IE ] endif ] [ if IE endif ] class fe.views.head_modules.CssReaderComments [ if IE endif ] class fe.views.head_modules.CssLazyLoad class fe.views.fff.CssFFF class fe.views.head_modules.JsPageCriteria class fe.views.head_modules.JsInitVars class fe.views.head_modules.JsTwitterVia class fe.views.head_modules.JsDart class fe.tracking.rta.JsRTA2 class fe.views.head_modules.JsFeSync [ if IE 8 endif ] [ if IE 9 endif ] [ if IE endif ] class fe.views.head_modules.JsAdverts ad-config : http : //mads.dailymail.co.uk/v4/us/wires/pa/article/other/false/wide/dailymail/config . class fe.views.head_modules.JsFeAsync [ if IE endif ] class fe.views.head_modules.JsVideo [ if IE [ w1299 ] Cambridge Analytica offices searched over data storage - BBC News [ if IE ] endif ] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst Begin iStats 20100118 ( UX-CMC 1.1009.3 ) End iStats ( UX-CMC ) [ if ( lt IE 9 ) & ( ! IEMobile ) if ( IE 8 ) endif if ( IE 7 ) endif if ( IE 6 ) endif endif ] Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow 's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC Styling hook for shared modules only [ if lt IE 9 endif ] BBC News Navigation Cambridge Analytica offices searched over data storage 24 March 2018 Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link https : //www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-43522775 Read more about sharing . These are external links and will open in a new window Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal The London offices of Cambridge Analytica have been searched by enforcement officers from the UK 's information commissioner . The High Court granted the data watchdog a warrant amid claims the firm amassed information about millions of people without their consent , based on a 2014 quiz on Facebook . The seven-hour search finished in the early hours of Saturday . Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook deny any wrongdoing . A group of people , some wearing ICO enforcement jackets , entered the building housing Cambridge Analytica 's London headquarters at 20:00 GMT on Friday - less than an hour after a High Court judge granted the warrant . Several hours later members of the Information Commissioner 's Office ( ICO ) were seen leaving the offices and a van - thought to be carrying gathered evidence - was driven away from the rear of the building . The ICO applied for the warrant to access the databases and servers of Cambridge Analytica . The search is part of a wider investigation into political campaigning . Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said she was looking at whether personal data was acquired in `` an unauthorised way '' , whether there was sufficient consent to share the data , what was done to safeguard it and whether Facebook acted robustly when it found out about the loss of the data . Cambridge Analytica 's acting chief executive , Alexander Tayler , said the company has been in touch with the Information Commissioner 's Office ( ICO ) since February 2017 and it remained committed to helping the investigation . Cambridge Analytica : The story so far The global reach of Cambridge Analytica Elon Musk pulls brands from Facebook In a statement , he said checks in 2015 showed all the Facebook data had been deleted but the company was now undertaking an independent third-party audit to verify none remained . Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix was suspended on Tuesday after footage broadcast on Channel 4 appeared to show him suggesting tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online . Media playback is unsupported on your device Cambridge Analytica : What we know so far Claims over whether Cambridge Analytica used the personal data of millions of Facebook users to sway the outcome of the US 2016 presidential election and the UK Brexit referendum have also been raised . The company denies any of the data harvested in the 2014 Facebook quiz created by an academic was used in its work for Donald Trump 's campaign . Meanwhile , the director of Vote Leave has denied allegations of links between his campaign and Cambridge Analytica . Dominic Cummings said claims by the Observer newspaper are `` factually wrong , hopelessly confused , or nonsensical '' . In a separate development , Brittany Kaiser , Cambridge Analytica 's former business development director , has told the Guardian the firm carried out data analysis for Leave.EU , the rival Brexit campaign to Vote Leave that was fronted by Nigel Farage . Cambridge Analytica said it did `` no paid or unpaid work '' for Leave.EU . Related Topics Facebook Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Data breaches Share this story About sharing More on this story 21 March 2018 22 March 2018 22 March 2018 22 March 2018 22 March 2018 21 March 2018 Top Stories US : China is 'intimidating neighbours ' The US defence chief says Beijing 's South China Sea actions raise questions about its broader goals . 2 June 2018 'Scourge ' of plastic on beaches tackled 2 June 2018 Trump says summit with Kim is back on 1 June 2018 Features [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Living on a rock in the North Atlantic [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Capital records : Revisit London 's iconic album cover images [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Review : Fortnite - Battle Royale ★★★☆☆ [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Written off aged five : From bottom set to deputy head [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Meet Norman , the psychopathic AI closed in responsive-image-end [ if lt IE 9 endif ] opened in responsive-image-start The witch hunts of Papua New Guinea closed in responsive-image-end [ if lt IE 9 endif ] opened in responsive-image-start Better orgasms and no leaks : Tips for a strong pelvic floor [ if lt IE 9 endif ] The best news photos from the past week [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Ramadan : The 'shame ' of eating during a period Elsewhere on the BBC [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Will it be the next food fad ? Full article Cockroach milk [ if lt IE 9 [ w1300 ] Vote Leave chief Dominic Cummings denies Cambridge Analytica links - BBC News [ if IE ] endif ] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst Begin iStats 20100118 ( UX-CMC 1.1009.3 ) End iStats ( UX-CMC ) [ if ( lt IE 9 ) & ( ! IEMobile ) if ( IE 8 ) endif if ( IE 7 ) endif if ( IE 6 ) endif endif ] Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow 's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC Styling hook for shared modules only [ if lt IE 9 endif ] BBC News Navigation Vote Leave chief Dominic Cummings denies Cambridge Analytica links 23 March 2018 Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link https : //www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-43518628 Read more about sharing . These are external links and will open in a new window Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal The director of Vote Leave has denied allegations of links between his campaign and Cambridge Analytica . Dominic Cummings said claims by the Observer newspaper are `` factually wrong , hopelessly confused , or nonsensical '' . Cambridge Analytica is facing claims it amassed the data of millions of people without their consent . The Observer is expected to publish further claims about links between the official Brexit campaign and the firm . Kunessberg : Cummings hits out Cambridge Analytica : The story so far Cambridge Analytica chief recalled by MPs Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of a row over whether it used the personal data of millions of Facebook users to sway the outcome of the US 2016 presidential election and the UK Brexit referendum . Mr Cummings claimed stories alleging links with Vote Leave were being promoted because a `` powerful set of people will do anything to try to shift public opinion in order that they can overturn the referendum '' . He says testimonies he expects to be made public in the coming days were from `` whistleblowers '' who were `` peripheral , making invented claims about things they did n't see '' . Mr Cummings has also published emails that appear to suggest Chris Wylie , who has been at the centre of the allegations about Cambridge Analytica , tried to sell Vote Leave a similar service , but was turned down . Mr Wylie 's lawyers have been contacted for a response . The blog also rejects any suggestions that Vote Leave was in any way linked to Cambridge Analytica . Vote Leave spent £2.7m on the services of a Canadian digital agency Aggregate AIQ in the run-up to the June 2016 EU referendum . In his blog , Mr Cummings says AIQ `` once built some software '' for Cambridge Analytica 's parent company SCL , in 2014 , but suggestions the company shared data with Cambridge Analytica were `` ludicrous '' . In a separate development , Brittany Kaiser , Cambridge Analytica 's former business development director , has told the Guardian the firm carried out data analysis for Leave.EU , the rival Brexit campaign to Vote Leave that was fronted by Nigel Farage . Cambridge Analytica has said it did `` no paid or unpaid work '' for Leave.EU . Ms Kaiser claims in The Guardian some work was undertaken , although no payment was received . Leave.EU 's co-founder Arron Banks said : `` Leave.EU did not receive any data or work from Cambridge Analytica . `` UKIP did give Cambridge Analytica some of its data and Cambridge Analytica did some analysis of this . `` But it was not used in the Brexit campaign . Cambridge Analytica tried to make me pay for that work but I refused . It had nothing to do with us . '' Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO , Alexander Nix , who was filmed as part of a Channel 4 investigation giving examples of how the firm could swing elections around the world with underhand tactics such as smear campaigns and honey traps . The company has offered to hand over all communications between its elections arm , SCL Elections Ltd , and a firm run by academic Dr Aleksandr Kogan by 5pm on Monday to the Information Commissioner , the High Court heard . Lawyers representing the Information Commissioner 's Office , which is investigating allegations against the firm , said its offer was `` a poor second best '' and are pursuing their application for a warrant . Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook deny any wrongdoing . The hearing before Judge Leonard continues . A group of campaigning lawyers have , meanwhile , won the first stage of their High Court challenge over election spending in the run-up to the EU referendum . The Good Law Project ( GLP ) says the Electoral Commission failed in its duty to regulate the referendum process in relation to spending by the Vote Leave campaign ahead of the vote in 2016 . Related Topics Facebook Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Brexit Share this story About sharing More on this story 22 March 2018 21 March 2018 21 March 2018 Top Stories US : China is 'intimidating neighbours ' The US defence chief says Beijing 's South China Sea actions raise questions about its broader goals . 2 June 2018 'Scourge ' of plastic on beaches tackled 2 June 2018 Trump says summit with Kim is back on 1 June 2018 Features [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Living on a rock in the North Atlantic [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Capital records : Revisit London 's iconic album cover images [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Review : Fortnite - Battle Royale ★★★☆☆ [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Written off aged five : From bottom set to deputy head [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Meet Norman , the psychopathic AI closed in responsive-image-end [ if lt IE 9 endif ] opened in responsive-image-start The witch hunts of Papua New Guinea closed in responsive-image-end [ if lt IE 9 endif ] opened in responsive-image-start Better orgasms and no leaks : Tips for a strong pelvic floor [ if lt IE 9 endif ] The best news photos from the past week [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Ramadan : The 'shame ' of eating during a period Elsewhere on the BBC [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Will it be the next food fad ? Full article Cockroach milk [ if lt IE 9 [ w1301 ] Cambridge Analytica : Investigators raid London offices after search warrant granted The Independent [ w1302 ] [ if IE 8 ] endif ] William Davies · Cambridge Analytica · LRB 5 April 2018 [ if lt IE 7 endif ] [ if IE 7 [ w1303 ] - Added Organization name and address for structure data elements - End Organization name and address for structure data elements Start Mobile Menu Emerging Technology Cloud IOT Cyber Security Big Data Enterprise IT Industry Boardroom Video White Papers English French German What Is About Us Editorial Team Advertise With Us Contact Us Help Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Site Map White Papers T & C ’ s GDPR End Mobile Menu Start Content Container Start Content Click Capture End Content Click Capture Start Fixed Header Emerging Technology Cloud IOT Cyber Security Big Data Enterprise IT Industry Boardroom Video White Papers English French German Start SearchForm End SearchForm Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Plus Start SearchForm End SearchForm Close End Fixed Header Start Sub Header End Sub Header Start Header Start SearchForm End SearchForm End Header Emerging Technology Cloud IOT Cyber Security Big Data Enterprise IT Industry Boardroom Video White Papers English French German Start SearchForm End SearchForm What Is About Us Editorial Team Advertise With Us Contact Us Help Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Site Map White Papers T & C ’ s GDPR Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Plus Start SearchForm End SearchForm Next - Previous Links Legacy IT slowing down cloud adoption by councils Tips for Transforming Your B2B Commerce Model Next - Previous Links Display Category Labels Boardroom Back to Home .Display Category Labels ICO Raids Offices Suspected of 200 Million Nuisance Calls By Ed Targett 23rd March 2018 The Information Commissioner ’ s Office ( ICO ) may be taking its own sweet time to raid the offices of Cambridge Analytica ( saying that a High Court judge “ has adjourned the ICO ’ s application for a warrant ” ) , but it has managed to raid offices near Glasgow , suspected of making over 200 million illegal nuisance calls . Computer equipment and documents were seized for analysis during the search . The ICO has powers to issue fines of up to £500,000 for breaches of the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003 . Ken Macdonald , Head of ICO Scotland , said : “ These calls have caused millions of people disruption , annoyance and distress , but not only this , those made to a control centre charged with public safety may have endangered lives. ” ICO to invoke all powers in Facebook , Cambridge Analytica data probe Facebook founder to give evidence over data sharing breach Tim Berners-Lee fights Google , Facebook , Twitter over internet control The 200 million plus calls the firm is suspected of making is one of the highest volumes the ICO has ever executed a search warrant in relation to . Tom Harwood , Chief Product Officer and co-founder at UK-based voice security specialists Aeriandi told Computer Business Review : “ This number is the equivalent of phoning every individual in the UK more than three times ! Most will have fallen victim to the ‘ opt out of marketing ’ tick box exercise we see on so many forms these days . He added : “ Internet telephony , particularly Voice over IP ( VoIP ) services such as Skype , has dramatically reduced the cost of making phone calls . Add in an automation platform and you have the ability to run an operation that – remarkably – can make 200 million recorded calls and still turn a profit . Unfortunately , this reduces consumer trust in telephone calls from legitimate businesses . The same technical advances , however , provide us with a range of tools to defend against this , including secure ways of providing credit card details using the telephone keypad , voice fraud detection and speech analytics . These are becoming increasingly important in the fight against telephone spam callers. ” Homepage News List ico Legacy IT slowing down cloud adoption by councils Is biometric technology the answer to fraud detection ? Start Related Posts Related News 4th Revolution AWS QuickSight Introduces Pay-Per-Session 1st June 2018 Big Data The Why , What , and How of the Open Hybrid Cloud 1st June 2018 Big Data Big Data and Local Government 1st June 2018 Dianomi Tags Latest in 4th Revolution 4th Revolution Three Key Considerations for a Successful Infrastructure Makeover 21st May 2018 4th Revolution Q & A with HCL – Industrial IoT : Benefits and barriers 29th March 2018 4th Revolution Data Connect 2018 21st March 2018 Latest in Analysis Boardroom How businesses are becoming smarter at prioritising security vulnerabilities 23rd March 2018 4th Revolution Cutting Through The Chatbot Chatter 26th February 2018 Manufacturing ’ s next disruptor : the share economy 13th February 2018 End Related Posts Most Read Cloud ’ s Big Four : A Round-Up of the Latest Offerings 31st May 2018 New Sumo Logic Partnership Puts Threats on an Actual Map 30th May 2018 Trojan Teamwork : IcedID and TrickBot in “ Unusual ” Collaboration 30th May 2018 Editor ’ s Pick These Otters Needed Stochastic Dynamic Programming 30th May 2018 Takeaways from the 2018 Open Source Security and Risk Analysis Report 29th May 2018 Meet the CEO on a “ Spiritual Mission ” to Bring Security to the Masses 29th May 2018 End role [ `` main '' ] Start Sub Footer What Is About Us Editorial Team Advertise With Us Contact Us Help Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Site Map White Papers T & C ’ s GDPR © 2018 COMPUTER BUSINESS REVIEW . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . End Sub Footer End # content-container End # wrapper Homepage Background .Homepage Background Favourites Favorite list is empty . Clear favorites Your favorite posts saved to your browsers cookies . If you clear cookies also favorite posts will be deleted . Latest News on CBR AWS QuickSight Introduces Pay-Per-Session 14 hours ago Election Systems Worldwide Targeted as Threats , FireEye Study Finds 14 hours ago The Why , What , and How of the Open Hybrid Cloud 18 hours ago Big Data and Local Government 18 hours ago Mozilla Introduces New Web Standards to Prevent User Data Leaks 19 hours ago Infosys Expands Digital Transformation Partnership with Microsoft 2 days ago Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Gaming Platform Steam 2 days ago What are the Benefits of Mobility as a Solution for Commuters ? 2 days ago Autonomous Analytics Company Anodot Opens London Office 2 days ago Cloud ’ s Big Four : A Round-Up of the Latest Offerings 2 days ago “ The Idea That CEOs Think Women Don ’ t ‘ fit in ’ is Laughable ” 2 days ago Google Cloud Partners with KPMG 2 days ago Arm Releases New Research Kit for its Smallest Processor 2 days ago Hackers Find 65 Bugs in Department of Defense System 2 days ago New Sumo Logic Partnership Puts Threats on an Actual Map 2 days ago These Otters Needed Stochastic Dynamic Programming 2 days ago Pardot Onboarding Tracking code - Pardot Onboarding Tracking code - [ w1304 ] - Added Organization name and address for structure data elements - End Organization name and address for structure data elements Start Mobile Menu Emerging Technology Cloud IOT Cyber Security Big Data Enterprise IT Industry Boardroom Video White Papers English French German What Is About Us Editorial Team Advertise With Us Contact Us Help Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Site Map White Papers T & C ’ s GDPR End Mobile Menu Start Content Container Start Content Click Capture End Content Click Capture Start Fixed Header Emerging Technology Cloud IOT Cyber Security Big Data Enterprise IT Industry Boardroom Video White Papers English French German Start SearchForm End SearchForm Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Plus Start SearchForm End SearchForm Close End Fixed Header Start Sub Header End Sub Header Start Header Start SearchForm End SearchForm End Header Emerging Technology Cloud IOT Cyber Security Big Data Enterprise IT Industry Boardroom Video White Papers English French German Start SearchForm End SearchForm What Is About Us Editorial Team Advertise With Us Contact Us Help Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Site Map White Papers T & C ’ s GDPR Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Plus Start SearchForm End SearchForm Next - Previous Links Is Technology Damaging your Health ? Police to follow new code of practice for using biometric data Next - Previous Links Display Category Labels Cyber Security Back to Home .Display Category Labels NCSC in Cyber Risk Warning ahead of Local Elections By Ed Targett 23rd March 2018 You may think that the UK ’ s old-fashioned pencil and paper-based electoral system is mercifully immune to cyber disruption , but GCHQ ’ s National Cyber Security Centre ( NCSC ) has warned that some areas of the British electoral system could still be vulnerable to cyber operations , ahead of local elections scheduled for May 3 , 2018 . In recent years there have been widespread incidents of cyber attacks , using a variety of techniques , timed to coincide with elections around the world , the NCSC noted ; the majority distributed denial of service ( DDoS ) attacks against government and media websites , but others designed to steal data , or to alter or disrupt the publication of election results . DDoS attacks , particularly against electoral , government or media websites making them unavailable at key moments during an electoral campaign ( for example shortly before the deadline for voter registration , or on election day itself ) ; spear phishing to access internet connected voter databases and attempts to alter or remove information published online , or publish falsified information or information obtained through hacking are all risks , it said . “ In periods of heightened pressure , attackers can exploit your staff ’ s willingness to help citizens and those involved in running the election , ” the report warns , saying that “ individuals involved in electoral processes in the UK are required to show integrity and discretion , but a small number of people may intend to exploit their access for their own , unauthorised purposes ( known as insider activity ) . An insider may seek to manipulate or compromise electoral information or processes for financial gain [ or ] ideological reasons. ” The warning comes as the Information Commisioner ’ s Office ( ICO ) was today belatedly anticipated to raid the offices of Cambridge Analytica , which is accused of illegally harvesting Facebook user data to help influence elections . Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said : “ On 7 March , my office issued a Demand for Access to records and data in the hands of Cambridge Analytica . Cambridge Analytica has not responded by the deadline provided ; therefore , we are seeking a warrant to obtain information and access to systems and evidence related to our investigation. ” The raid has been delayed by a High Court judge adjourning the ICO ’ s application for a warrant. ” Concerns about interference in UK elections has been rising , with a report by Parliament ’ s Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee ( PACAC ) , entitled Lessons from the EU referendum saying : “ Lessons in respect of the protection and resilience against possible foreign interference in IT systems that are critical for the functioning of the democratic process must extend beyond the technical. ” The committee added : “ The US and UK understanding of ‘ cyber ’ is predominantly technical and computer-network based . For example , Russia and China use a cognitive approach based on understanding of mass psychology and of how to exploit individuals. ” The NCSC urged regular back-ups of EMS data stores ( in particular the electoral roll itself ) and that officers hold these offline in a separate secure location and for infrastructure used by local authorities ( and other electoral organisations ) to be well maintained , using modern software and hardware , and kept patched , with end user devices , such as those used by staff to manage the electoral roll , to be corporately managed . Cybersecurity Homepage News List Is Technology Damaging your Health ? Police to follow new code of practice for using biometric data Start Related Posts Related News Cyber Security Election Systems Worldwide Targeted as Threats , FireEye Study Finds 1st June 2018 Big Data Mozilla Introduces New Web Standards to Prevent User Data Leaks 1st June 2018 Cyber Security Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Gaming Platform Steam 31st May 2018 Dianomi Tags Latest in 4th Revolution 4th Revolution AWS QuickSight Introduces Pay-Per-Session 1st June 2018 4th Revolution Three Key Considerations for a Successful Infrastructure Makeover 21st May 2018 4th Revolution Q & A with HCL – Industrial IoT : Benefits and barriers 29th March 2018 Latest in Analysis Boardroom How businesses are becoming smarter at prioritising security vulnerabilities 23rd March 2018 4th Revolution Cutting Through The Chatbot Chatter 26th February 2018 Manufacturing ’ s next disruptor : the share economy 13th February 2018 End Related Posts Most Read Cloud ’ s Big Four : A Round-Up of the Latest Offerings 31st May 2018 New Sumo Logic Partnership Puts Threats on an Actual Map 30th May 2018 Trojan Teamwork : IcedID and TrickBot in “ Unusual ” Collaboration 30th May 2018 Editor ’ s Pick These Otters Needed Stochastic Dynamic Programming 30th May 2018 Takeaways from the 2018 Open Source Security and Risk Analysis Report 29th May 2018 Meet the CEO on a “ Spiritual Mission ” to Bring Security to the Masses 29th May 2018 End role [ `` main '' ] Start Sub Footer What Is About Us Editorial Team Advertise With Us Contact Us Help Privacy Policy RSS Feeds Site Map White Papers T & C ’ s GDPR © 2018 COMPUTER BUSINESS REVIEW . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . End Sub Footer End # content-container End # wrapper Homepage Background .Homepage Background Favourites Favorite list is empty . Clear favorites Your favorite posts saved to your browsers cookies . If you clear cookies also favorite posts will be deleted . Latest News on CBR AWS QuickSight Introduces Pay-Per-Session 14 hours ago Election Systems Worldwide Targeted as Threats , FireEye Study Finds 14 hours ago The Why , What , and How of the Open Hybrid Cloud 18 hours ago Big Data and Local Government 18 hours ago Mozilla Introduces New Web Standards to Prevent User Data Leaks 19 hours ago Infosys Expands Digital Transformation Partnership with Microsoft 2 days ago Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Gaming Platform Steam 2 days ago What are the Benefits of Mobility as a Solution for Commuters ? 2 days ago Autonomous Analytics Company Anodot Opens London Office 2 days ago Cloud ’ s Big Four : A Round-Up of the Latest Offerings 2 days ago “ The Idea That CEOs Think Women Don ’ t ‘ fit in ’ is Laughable ” 2 days ago Google Cloud Partners with KPMG 2 days ago Arm Releases New Research Kit for its Smallest Processor 2 days ago Hackers Find 65 Bugs in Department of Defense System 2 days ago New Sumo Logic Partnership Puts Threats on an Actual Map 2 days ago These Otters Needed Stochastic Dynamic Programming 2 days ago Pardot Onboarding Tracking code - Pardot Onboarding Tracking code - [ w1305 ] TECH TRACKER LIVE : Bank of England sets up fintech hub to try and boost UK 's weak productivity levels London Evening Standard SiteCatalyst tracking Google Analytics Chartbeat tracking comScore UDM pageview tracking QuantCast tracking - Nielson ES_Masthead Created with Sketch . iTunesArtwork Created with Sketch . News London Crime Politics Transport UK World Business Education Health Royal Wedding Comment Editorials The Londoner Cartoon London Calling The Reader Matthew d'Ancona Charlotte Edwardes Ayesha Hazarika Rohan Silva Anne McElvoy Laura Weir Sam Leith Football Arsenal Chelsea Crystal Palace Tottenham Watford West Ham Other sport GO London Latest Things to do This weekend Afternoon tea Brunch Sunday roasts Date ideas With dogs Cheese Vegan food With kids Late night London On a budget Tickets Top Shows Book Of Mormon Lion King Wicked Phantom Of The Opera Dreamgirls Thriller - Live Les Miserables Motown The Musical Mamma Mia Kinky Boots Aladdin Restaurants Latest News Brunch Sunday roasts Fish and chips Pizza Steak Vegan Michelin stars Cuisines British Chinese French Indian Italian Japanese Mexican Spanish Thai Turkish Vegan Areas City Covent Garden Mayfair Notting Hill Shoreditch Soho Pubs & Bars Vibe Casual Cosy Good views Romantic 50 best bars Drinks Beer Cocktails Coffee Gin Whisky Wine Arts Latest Theatre Exhibitions Dance Opera Theatre Family friendly Fringe Musical Shakespeare West End Exhibitions Art exhibitions Classics Modern art Museum exhibitions Photography Sculpture Theatre Latest News Tickets Performance type Comedy Drama Family friendly Fringe Musicals Immersive Shakespeare West End Film Genre Action Animation Comedy Documentary Drama Horror Kids film Musical Romance Sci fi Thriller Best films Music By genre Brit pop Country Jazz Pop R & B Rap Reggae Rock Techno Britney Spears tour Lionel Richie tour Festivals Festival news Festivals in London Festivals in UK Festivals in Europe Things to do Get inspired Dates Late night London For kids On a budget With dogs Events and attractions Pop up Secret London Lifestyle Fashion Tech ES Best Food & Drink Beauty Health & Fitness Travel Design Books ES Magazine Showbiz Staying In TV reviews Music news Homes & Property Property News Area Guides Home & Garden Luxury ES Magazine Please wait ... . My account Log out Benefits User policies Log in Register Benefits User policies Please wait ... . News London Crime Politics Transport UK World Education Health Royal Wedding Comment Editorials The Londoner Cartoon London Calling The Reader Matthew d'Ancona Charlotte Edwardes Ayesha Hazarika Rohan Silva Football Arsenal Chelsea Tottenham Hotspur Crystal Palace Watford West Ham Transfer News Premier League Championship Sport Rugby Union Cricket Tennis Showbiz Staying In TV reviews Music news GO London Restaurants Bars , Pubs & Clubs Arts Theatre Film Music Comedy Events & Attractions Great Days Out Tickets Lifestyle Fashion Tech Food & Drink Beauty Health & Fitness Travel Design Books ES Magazine Puzzles & Games Crosswords Competitions Motors Shopping ES Best ES Shop Travel Offers Voucher Codes Business & Money Money Transfers Business Directory Health insurance Homes & Property Property news Area guides Home & garden Luxury Follow us : Business Mark Shapland Friday 23 March 2018 12:00 { { # singleComment } } { { value } } comment { { /singleComment } } { { ^singleComment } } { { value } } comments { { /singleComment } } Click to follow The Evening Standard Ad Placements Start Here the Evening Standard business team will bring investors rolling coverage and analysis on all the major tech news this morning . The Bank of England has set up a fintech hub to try and boost the UK 's weak productivity levels , meanwhile the Cambridge Analytica/Facebook scandal rumbles on . Also plenty of UK focused fund raisings and as ever news from Silicon Valley too . Stay tuned . Live Updates 2018-03-23T11:11:48.333Z Let 's get started . In a U-turn from the Bank of England it has decided to embrace the modern world . Not long ago Governor Mark Carney was ripping into crypto . But now the Old Lay has decided to set up its own fintech hub to find ways to use the kind of technology that has spawned digital currencies such as bitcoin and which could eventually help boost Britain ’ s economy . “ Today I can announce that we have set up a new fintech hub that will sit at the heart of the Bank , to consider both how the Bank understands and how it applies fintech , relevant to its mission , ” Deputy Governor Dave Ramsden said . Ramsden said the rise of fintech could help Britain improve its long-standing problem of weak productivity growth as well as help the BoE improve its internal infrastructure . “ As a member of the Monetary Policy Committee , I need to be open minded about the way fintech could impact the economy of the UK , ” he added . “ The defining trend of the last 10 years has been the weakness of productivity . Given the size of the financial sector in the UK , I can see fintech driving competition and a pick-up in productivity in the medium term. ” 2018-03-23T11:13:54.300Z Not to be outdone , Mayor Sadiq Khan is also planning for the future . Khan has hired London-based artificial intelligence research group CognitionX to plan how the city can best harness AI . Khan said he believes that London is already in a strong position in the data economy , so he wants CognitionX to produce a report that outlines how AI can positively progress the city ’ s policies and economy . “ It will also identify the challenges we face in positioning the capital as the best place to start , grow or relocate an AI business , ” Khan said . “ Artificial intelligence has the potential to transform almost every industry across the capital. ” 2018-03-23T11:17:28.060Z Have a fundraiser . Everledger , a startup that uses blockchain technology to track assets in a bid to prevent fraud , has raised $ 10.4 million . The round was led by Fidelity and Toronto-based investment banking firm GMP Securities . Vickers Ventures Partners , Graphene Venture Capital while existing investors FPV , Fenbushi , Bloomberg Beta and Rakuten also participated . 2018-03-23T11:19:45.023Z And another one , as it 's Friday . Manchester based technology company Matillion has closed a $ 20 million funding round led by Sapphire Ventures . Matillion was founded by Matthew Scullion in 2011 , alongside chief technology officer Ed Thompson and commercial director Peter McCord . The business has developed software focused on allowing its customers to extract , load and transform data into and on cloud-based data warehouses , quickly and at scale . 2018-03-23T11:23:14.310Z The crypto world remains volatile . Japan 's top financial regulator has issued a warning to cryptocurrency exchange Binance , warning it to suspend operations immediately . The firm is one of the world 's largest crypto exchanges in the world . More to come . 2018-03-23T12:35:15.496Z Major story of the week has been Facebook , which has lawsuits mounting up after the Cambridge Analytica data misuse and political ad targeting scandal . Lauren Price , a Maryland resident , is the first of what could be many lawsuits seeking damages over Facebook ’ s ability to protect user data , and Cambridge Analytica ’ s exploitation of that data to benefit President Donald Trump ’ s 2016 campaign . The complaint was filed in the US District Court in San Jose , California , several hours after Facebook was blamed in a shareholder lawsuit filed in nearby San Francisco for the drop in its stock price after the data harvesting was revealed . Nearly $ 50 billion of market value was wiped out in two days . Price accused Facebook and London-based Cambridge Analytica of negligence and violating a California unfair competition law . She said the harvesting contravened Facebook ’ s privacy policy , in which the Menlo Park , California-based company said user trust was “ important to us ” and that it would not share information without permission and notice . 2018-03-23T12:43:15.496Z It 's a big day for Dropbox , which floats on the Nasdaq later . The cloud storage company ’ s debut marks an end to a long dry spell in the US IPO market and is the biggest tech IPO since Snapchat owner Snap listed in March last year . Its shares , which priced late Thursday at $ 21 a piece - $ 1 above their projected range of $ 18 to $ 20 , will debut on Nasdaq sometime after the market open , trading under the ticker “ DBX . '' The big question is whether the hot demand that drove up its IPO price underpins a strong bid for its shares on a day when U.S. equity index futures signal another rough trading session . The S & P 500 and Nasdaq both tumbled more than 2 % yesterday following the Trump administration 's announcement of trade tariffs on China and on the week are down more than 4 % . Dropbox is yet to turn in a profit , but that ’ s common for startups that invest heavily in growth . However , as a public company Dropbox will be under pressure to quickly trim its losses . 2018-03-23T12:52:39.580Z Finally here 's an piece from Matt Hancock is the Secretary of State for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport . He has vowed to put an end to the Wild West culture of the internet giants . As far as this publication is aware he still has not arranged a search warrant so that the information commissioner can enter the offices of Cambridge Analytica . All very bizarre . Anyway here 's his piece . 2018-03-23T12:53:08.263Z That 's enough for this week - same time on Monday . Ad Placements End BUSINESS . tech Comments Post Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines You may not agree with our views , or other users ’ , but please respond to them respectfully Swearing , personal abuse , racism , sexism , homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful language is not acceptable Do not impersonate other users or reveal private information about third parties We reserve the right to delete inappropriate posts and ban offending users without notification You can find our Community Guidelines in full here . Refresh Subscribe RSS { { { commentText } } } Reply Flag { { # sender.isSelf } } Delete { { /sender.isSelf } } { { # replies } } { { { commentText } } } Reply Flag { { # replies } } { { { commentText } } } Flag { { /replies } } { { /replies } } Notifications Enter your email to subscribe to new comments on this article . Subscribe Thanks for subscribing ! { { errorMessage } } Vote Are you sure you want to submit this vote ? Yes , submit this vote Cancel Report Comment Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate ? Yes , flag this comment Cancel This comment has been flagged . This comment has been flagged . Delete Comment Are you sure you want to delete this comment ? Yes , delete this comment Cancel This comment had been deleted . { { errorMessage } } Reply Post Cancel Comment posted ! { { errorMessage } } Most Popular Popular Videos Sponsored Features iTunesArtwork Created with Sketch . Follow us : All Topics All Authors Archive Terms of use Contact Us Privacy policy Cookie policy Code of Conduct & Complaints Advertisers Promotion rules Contributors Syndication Homes & Property Jobs London Live The Independent This is London Magazine indy100 Install our apps Voucher Codes I accept Evening Standard and its partners use cookies and similar technology to collect and analyse information about the users of this website . We use this information to enhance the content , advertising and other services available on the site . Please click ‘ I accept ’ to consent to the use of this technology by Evening Standard and its partners . You can manage your preferences at any time by visiting our Cookies Notice . Polar script [ w1306 ] [ if lt IE 7 ] xmlns= '' http : //www.w3.org/1999/x '' prefix= '' '' lang= '' en-US '' class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 '' endif ] [ if ( IE 7 ) & ! ( IEMobile ) xmlns= '' http : //www.w3.org/1999/x '' prefix= '' '' lang= '' en-US '' class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 '' endif ] [ if ( IE 8 ) & ! ( IEMobile ) xmlns= '' http : //www.w3.org/1999/x '' prefix= '' '' lang= '' en-US '' class= '' no-js lt-ie9 '' endif ] [ if IE [ w1307 ] Judge grants search warrant for Cambridge Analytica offices BreakingNews.ie [ if lt IE 9 ] [ w1308 ] Why Nordea ’ s responsible investment funds have dropped Facebook Ethical Corporation jQuery & UI Popcorn Metaplayer FONT AWESOME X FREE Download : The Responsible Business Trends Report 2018 Featuring insight from over 1,500 senior practitioners from across the globe , understand how sustainability strategy is being adopted across the globe and areas of business it ’ s impacting . Discover how the SDGs and Paris Agreement are impacting business strategy and what corporate practitioners see as key opportunities . Get your free copy of the report here Log in popup window Log in Username or e-mail Password Forgotten Password ? Subscribe Close log in window EC Player Whitepapers Promotion Facilities Research Reports Advisory Board Editorial Calendar Jobs /.block /.region EC Player Whitepapers Promotion Facilities Research Reports Advisory Board Editorial Calendar Jobs Communications & Reporting Environment Business Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chains People & Careers Events /.block /.region /.region Subscribe Log in Home Communications & Reporting Environment Business Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chains People & Careers /.block /.region Navigation Why Nordea ’ s responsible investment funds have dropped Facebook By on Sasja Beslik , head of sustainable finance for the Swedish bank , explains why his team decided to put a hold on investment in the social media platform in the wake of this week ’ s Cambridge Analytica revelations IMAGE SET IN PAGE TEMPLATE Facebook has a market cap of close to 500 billion dollars . 2.2 billion users , or 29 % of the global population , are using the network on a monthly basis . This indicates that the company has established a solid , profitable and strong business model . But can it persist in the long-term and is the business model sustainable ? The amount of personal data available for monetisation by Facebook is massive . The social media platform is bigger and more widely used than WhatsApp , Twitter and Instagram combined . Every second , there are five new profiles registered at Facebook , and each day close to five billion pieces of content are shared . Facebook ’ s revenues have grown from $ 153m in 2007 to $ 40bn in 2017 – an increase of over 26,000 % – and the majority of the revenue is thanks to these 1.8 trillion data pieces shared on annual basis . Simultaneous to this exponential growth , the company has revised its data privacy policy more frequently than its peers since inception in 2004 , to further weaken consumer protection and monetise data . For example , in its current data privacy policy there is nothing stated in regard to protecting sensitive data , requirements of consent by third parties for handling data , enhancing privacy in general or minimising data collection and retention . The business model is at great threat unless the company lives up to adequate privacy commitments . Users have long been concerned with how their data is being used for advertising purposes and Facebook belongs to the bottom quartile when it comes to privacy and data security among its peers . As such , Facebook has significant exposure to reputational , litigation and regulatory risks . The number of controversies relating to data privacy are stocking up and occurring more frequently than ever before . Over two days , Facebook recently lost nearly 50 billion dollars in market cap on the news that Cambridge Analytica accessed data from 50 million users without consent . Furthermore , Facebook has been under investigation by regulators in Belgium , Germany , Spain , UK , Netherlands and France . Regulators in Austria , Thailand , Indonesia , and the European Union has sent warnings due to weak internal policies . Fines have been imposed to the company by a number of regulators as well . The message clearly suggests that the business model of Facebook is unsustainable . Nordea ’ s Responsible Investment team initiated thematic research on the topic in 2017 meeting with a number of think-tanks and investors in North America . On the background of this , in combination with coming regulation on data privacy such as the General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) in the EU posing significant challenges on Facebook , Nordea has put a temporary hold on investments in the stock for our sustainable funds on 21 March 2018.The ban is valid for three months , and will be reviewed at the end of the period . In the meantime , we will be monitoring the situation and evaluate how Facebook deals with regulators and conforms to stakeholder expectations such as ourselves . Sasja Beslik will be speaking at Ethical Corporation ’ s Future of Responsible Business Summit in London on 13-14 June . Facebook data protection Nordea CSR and social media GDPR Cambridge Analytica ESG investors Related Reads Comment : ‘ Benchmarking has started a race to the top ... Paul Polman : ‘ I feel like it ’ s my first day at Unil ... ‘ We need to wake up to the existential threat surveil ... Why Unilever is smart to tackle its digital supply chai ... comments powered by /.block /.region / # main /.block Top Stories Ethics in a digital age new briefing in revised editorial calendar Micro-grids , sustainable transport , and deforestation also come under the microscope as Ethical Corporation updates its editorial calendar for the rest of the year Comment : ‘ Improper antibiotics use is putting food industry at high ESG risk ’ FAIRR Initiative director Maria Lettini explains the findings of the first index to analyse the sustainability risks of big meat , fish and dairy producers Comment : ‘ Time to celebrate companies that pay their fair share of tax ’ With tax avoidance people 's biggest concern when it comes to corporate conduct , the Fair Tax Mark ’ s Paul Monaghan says 40 firms , including SSE , Marshalls and Go-Ahead Group , have signed up to the Fair Tax Mark /.block Most Popular Sustainable living brands still fuelling Unilever ’ s growth 1 Analysis : UK retailers ’ plastics pact ‘ must be backed up by real change ’ 2 How big brands are helping consumers shift to healthier eating options 3 Risk of 'SDG wash ' as 56 % of companies fail to measure contribution to SDGs 4 Five steps to taking the Global Goals to the heart of business 5 /.block /.region / # sidebar-first Ethical Corporation is part of FC Business Intelligence Ltd , a registered company in England and Wales - Registered number 0438897 . 7-9 Fashion Street , London , E1 6PX , UK . © Ethical Corporation 2018 LEGAL NOTICE TERMS & CONDITIONS ABOUT US +44 0207 375 7212 PRIVACY POLICY /.block /.region © , Go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools [ w1309 ] An Si digital creation https : //sidigital.co Menu Home News Guides Opinions Interviews Videos Ebooks Search Follow us SMALL ARTICLE DISPLAY Facebook , Data Breaches And The Real Risk Under GDPR By - Mar 23 , 2018 Facebook 's plunging share price is evidence of the reputational risk associated with data mis-handling . Share this article Share this article Facebook 's plunging share price is evidence of the reputational risk associated with data mis-handling . Facebook , Data Breaches And The Real Risk Under GDPR By - Mar 23 , 2018 Facebook 's plunging share price is evidence of the reputational risk associated with data mis-handling . Share this article With the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation ( known as “ GDPR ” ) now just 2 months ’ away ( 25th May ) , the news this week regarding Cambridge Analytica and the Facebook data breach involving data of approximately 50 million Facebook users , should be a lesson to every business of the real risks under GDPR . Most of the talk about the changes under GDPR has related to the significant increase in fines which are going up from the current maximum of £500,000 to €20m or 4 % of global turnover if higher . Given Facebook ’ s annual revenue for the 12 months to 31st December 2017 was just shy of $ 40bn , the maximum fine that could be imposed under GDPR could be somewhere in the region of $ 1.6bn or circa €1.3bn - a truly eye watering amount . However , whilst the forthcoming increase in fines has grabbed most of the headlines surrounding GDPR , there has been a significant amount of scaremongering around these . According to the most recent annual report from the Information Commissioner ’ s Office ( the “ ICO ” ) , only 16 civil monetary penalties ( i.e . fines ) were issued during the year 2016/2017 . As such the ICO very much sees fines as an absolute last resort , or reserved for cases where there has been a large volume of data compromised ( think TalkTalk ) . However , as Elizabeth Denham , the Information Commissioner , correctly pointed out when being interviewed this week on Channel 4 , Facebook , as a private sector organisation , currently has no obligation to report data breaches . This will change under GDPR come the 25th May and for me this is the most significant change GDPR introduces . The reason for this is that having to positively report a data breach puts you on the ICO ’ s radar . If any action is then taken by the ICO as a result of that data breach , you run the risk that you will be “ named and shamed ” . Additionally if the breach is one that constitutes a “ high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals ” you may also have to inform those individuals direct – imagine a letter on your company letterhead arriving on an individual ’ s door mat telling them that your organisation has compromised their data potentially putting them at risk of identity theft or financial fraud . These in turn pose a significant risk to the reputation of your organisation , especially in the current age of digital media where news spreads far and wide almost instantly – before you know it a photograph of that letter will be on platforms such as Twitter , Instagram and ( ironically ) Facebook being shared , liked and retweeted endlessly . If your organisation is then seen as one that can ’ t be trusted to keep data secure , you will lose existing customers , struggle to attract new customers and struggle with commercial relationships ( where in Facebook ’ s case its model relies almost entirely on the income from advertisers ) . So what is the cost of this… Looking at what has happened to Facebook in the 2 days since the breach was announced . Firstly we have seen the social media campaign # deletefacebook gathering pace seeing numerous users delete their accounts – something significant for a business based on user numbers and the amount of time spent on the platform by users . Secondly , and more importantly , the shareholders/investors have reacted and in the first 2 days since the Cambridge Analytica story broke , more than $ 50bn dollars has been wiped of its share value – a fall of over 9 % based on one news story , and a fall in value which is more than the entire value of the Ford motor company – a staggering statistic by any standards and one which makes the potential €1.3bn fine under GDPR a mere comparative drop in the ocean . Whilst GDPR compliance has a financial implication in the shape of potential fines , don ’ t discount the reputational and consequential financial damage that can be caused by not being able to look after data . Christian Mancier is a partner at Govins Solicitors , you can reach him via christianmancier @ gorvins.com or 0161-930-5117 . Christian Mancier Corporate-commercial partner at Gorvins Solicitors View Author Profile Share this article Prev Article Next Article Minutehack GDPR & PCI : Addressing Email Is The First Step Towards Compliance By - May 24 , 2018 GDPR Compliance Emails ... That Breach GDPR By - May 23 , 2018 Small Businesses 'Wasting Time And Money ' On GDPR By - May 22 , 2018 Sidebar Minutehack What Successful People Do On Their Commute This Year Artificial Intelligence Becomes A Marketer ’ s Friend Is Ecommerce Without Borders Doomed ? How The Internet Of Things Will Improve The Future How Machine Learning Will Enhance Paid Search Minutehack Sign me up ! This Year Artificial Intelligence Becomes A Marketer ’ s Friend Why Silicon Valley Is Eating Bankers ' Lunch AI And Machine Learning For Cybersecurity : Friend And Foe ? Start-Ups And Big Business Should Collaborate , Not Compete How Fintech Is Disrupting Traditional Banking Models Minutehack Google Adwords : Methods To Improve Your PPC Campaign What Successful People Do On Their Commute This Year Artificial Intelligence Becomes A Marketer ’ s Friend The Top Digital Marketing Trends Of 2018 Is Ecommerce Without Borders Doomed ? Previous Article Next Article Facebook , Data Breaches And The Real Risk Under GDPR Next Article Share this article Facebook , Data Breaches And The Real Risk Under GDPR By - Mar 23 , 2018 Get news to your inbox Sign me Up ! About Authors Contact Privacy Get news to your inbox Sign me Up ! Website By Thanks for signing up to Minutehack alerts . Brilliant editorials heading your way soon . Okay , Thanks ! [ w1310 ] [ if IE 8 ] class= '' ie8 '' lang= '' en-US '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' ie9 '' lang= '' en-US '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # '' [ w1311 ] Big tech 's bad week has made the world wake up Big tech 's bad week has made the world wake up Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today 's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement Opinion National Facebook Big tech 's bad week has made the world wake up By Peter Hartcher Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size America 's Big Tech firms have had a free run for a long time now . The normal standards were suspended for them . The soft power of their image gave them worldwide licence to evade tax , break laws , abuse customers ' trust and exploit workers . Less likeable firms like Monsanto or Exxon Mobil could never get away with flaunting such systematic , anti-social lawlessness year in and year out . But Big Tech merely rebranded it as `` disruption '' and it was suddenly cool , fun , and freewheeling . Illustration : Jim Pavlidis This week has been a signal moment for the sector . It 's a moment where American politics and officialdom are rethinking their hypertolerant approach , and governments everywhere need to do the same . Two Big Tech flagships have committed fatal breaches of trust . An Uber driverless car killed a woman as she crossed a street in the US state of Arizona . Forty nine-year-old Elaine Herzberg is the first known fatality caused by an `` autonomous vehicle '' , an unwitting martyr to technological experimentation . But it was n't only the technology that failed . A human operator was in the car at the time as a failsafe . He was looking down in the vital moments and failed to act . It turns out he has a criminal history for armed robbery and a number of driving offences including driving without a licence , according to The Wall Street Journal . Advertisement Uber was fined $ US8.9 million ( $ 11.5 million ) last year by another US state , Colorado , for having several dozen convicted criminals as drivers , a breach of the state 's laws for ride-hailing companies . At the time , Uber called it a `` process error '' . Illustration : John Shakespeare Uber 's founder and former chief executive Travis Kalanick had said that getting rid of drivers was an `` existential '' business priority for Uber . The company has spent billions on the program because , by making humans redundant , the company could cut the costs of an Uber ride by three-quarters . It might be existential for Uber ; it 's unquestionably existential for Herzberg . Uber has halted its driverless car testing temporarily . In the other notable breach of trust , the personal information of some 50 million Facebook users was misused by a political consultancy to help Donald Trump 's 2016 election campaign target voters . The consultancy , now notorious , is called Cambridge Analytica . Facebook shrugged off the scandal and stonewalled the public and the US Congress for the first five days . It responded not to its angry customers or concerned Congress members but only to its falling share price . Facebook founder and major shareholder Mark Zuckerberg decided that it was serious only after he had lost $ US9 billion in personal wealth . `` So this was a major breach of trust and I 'm really sorry that this happened , '' were Zuckerberg 's first words in a CNN interview this week . `` So our responsibility now is to make sure that this does n't happen again . '' A self-driving Uber . Uber has suspended its trials of self-drive cars . Photo : Gene J. Puskar Which sounds good until you recall that it has already happened again , and again . One of the reasons that this is a problem for Facebook is that the company gave a formal undertaking to the US Federal Trade Commission in 2011 that it would not . `` Users had no idea that Cambridge Analytica was accessing this data . It 's a clear violation of the 2011 consent order , '' Sam Lester of the Electronic Privacy Information Centre told CBS News . A former mentor of Zuckerberg 's and one of his earliest investors , Roger McNamee , pointed out : `` Potentially it could cost them $ US40,000 for every offence , times 50 million . '' That comes out at a possible maximum $ US2 trillion , a bankrupting bill even for a company the size of Facebook . McNamee says he 's been trying to persuade Zuckerberg to tend to the ethics of his business for years , in vain . Zuckerberg eventually cut off contact . Facebook users are `` finally starting to recognise that this is not the fun and games , innocent place they thought it was , '' says McNamee , still a shareholder in the business . `` There 's been an increasing understanding that when you 're using Facebook , a lot of bad things are going to happen to you , as a user . '' A tech writer for Slate , Will Oremus , says that it was inevitable : `` The real scandal is that this wasn ’ t a data breach or some egregious isolated error on Facebook ’ s part . What Cambridge Analytica did was , in many ways , what Facebook was optimised for - collating personal information about vast numbers of people in handy packets that could then be used to try to sell them something . '' Facebook CEO has said the company will make changes . Yet it took a long time and multiple scandals for the political and regulatory system to turn serious attention to the firm . The firm has shown indifference to systematic abuse when Daesh , or Islamic State , terrorists were having a field day recruiting and propagandising on Facebook , and when Russian operatives used it to manipulate the US presidential election . The US Congress is investigating the Facebook data breach and has called Zuckerberg to appear . The US Fair Trade Commission is investigating . The European Parliament has passed new laws effective in May to require companies to protect users ' personal data online under pain of a penalty of up to 4 per cent of a company 's global revenue . If applied to Facebook last year , for instance , that would equate to a $ US1.6 billion fine . And the frustrated tax authorities of the European Union are getting serious about Big Tech 's record of tax avoidance . This week the European Commission proposed a tax of 3 per cent on all payments to digital companies , even where they have no physical presence . That would raise some 5 billion euros ( $ 8 billion ) a year . The commission says this would be only an interim measure till it can get a proper grip on the slipperiness of Big Tech 's tax doings . Italy and India already apply a similar transaction tax on the ad revenues collected from their countries by companies like Facebook and Google . By abusing initial trust and exploiting its wow factor to the hilt , Big Tech 's cool image has finally started to fade . Its soft power is now yielding to the hard power of the state as parliaments and regulators start to apply normal standards to the sector . Australia is a world leader in some of its approaches to the so-called digital economy , and is still finding its way on others . Canberra has pioneered taxing the industry , and it has led on protecting citizens from some of the most harmful effects of its reach . The Tax Office under former policeman Chris Jordan has taken a tough line on multinational tax avoidance , with a special interest in Big Tech . His tax avoidance taskforce collected $ 5 billion in extra revenue in back taxes from digital multinationals last year . A permanent extra $ 7 billion a year has been added to Australia 's tax base through a more rigorous approach to the affairs of multinationals including Big Tech . Other countries are studying the Australian experience . Australia created the Office of the eSafety Commissioner three years ago , another world first . Commissioner Julie Inman Grant , formerly with Twitter and Microsoft , is now empowered to protect against serious cases of cyber bullying and revenge porn . The office has helped remove harmful online bullying material in 720 cases under threat of a fine of up to $ 18,000 a day . It has a success rate of about 80 per cent in removing revenge porn used against Australian citizens . But the core of the Big Tech challenge to societies is a kind of extreme libertarianism . It 's in the water in the Silicon Valley tech ecosystem . If unchallenged , the firms that spring from this culture will not just disrupt industries . They will strip nations of their tax bases and societies of their labour markets . The Amazon founder and chief Jeff Bezos routinely demands that governments start paying universal basic incomes to all citizens , enough to keep people above the poverty line . A professor at New York University 's Stern School of Business , Scott Galloway , argues that this is simply a tech sector preparing to renounce all social responsibility , lumping governments with responsibility to make up for the deficiency at the centre of its vision : `` What 's clear , '' Galloway writes in his book The Four : The Hidden DNA of Amazon , Apple , Facebook and Google , `` is that we need business leaders who envision and enact a future with more jobs - not billionaires who want the government to fund , with taxes they avoid , social programs for people to sit on their couches and watch Netflix all day . '' `` Jeff , '' he chides the Amazon founder , `` show some real f -ing visions . '' The ACTU 's Sally McManus employed a lot of hyperbole this week in her demands for a new labour market regulation , but one of her agenda items is highly relevant - governments need to address the rise of the `` gig economy '' where work is done not by employees but as piecework by contractors without adequate pay or conditions . Like Uber drivers . Much of this agenda will be addressed through Australia 's Fair Work Commission , which has a number of cases before it brought by Uber drivers unhappy with Uber . Fair Work , a creation of the previous Labor government , will rule on these , making , through case law , a new set of standards for the gig economy . This will happen without the need for legislation . But more will be needed . The digital economy need not be jobless and abusive . A landmark Australian agreement struck last year by one new tech firm in the digital economy , Airtasker , is a showcase . Airtasker posts jobs online and workers can bid to do them . The company was attacked for allowing these `` gigs '' to be paid at exploitative pay rates . Rather than shut out the critics and claim a special exemption for being `` cool '' , the company sat down with Unions NSW and worked out a deal to protect workers ' pay and conditions . Unions NSW secretary Mark Morey praised the firm for establishing `` an important beachhead for regulating the gig economy . Others should follow Airtasker 's example and consider the ethical dimension of their impact '' . Inevitably , further intelligent policy responses will be needed and the political winner will not be the party that dismisses it all as fun , cool , tech , nor the party that responds with a regulatory sledgehammer , but thoughtfully and creatively balances economic creativity with worker rights . Thoughtful and creative are not adjectives often applied to Australian political parties . But this is a whole new agenda . Opportunity awaits . We live in hope . Peter Hartcher is political editor . License this article Facebook Opinion Sharing economy Peter Hartcher Peter Hartcher is the political editor and international editor of The Sydney Morning Herald . He is a Gold Walkley award winner , a former foreign correspondent in Tokyo and Washington , and a visiting fellow at the Lowy Institute for International Policy . Most Viewed in National Morning & Afternoon Newsletter Delivered Mon–Fri . Email address By signing up you accept our privacy policy and conditions of use The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times The Canberra Times WAtoday The Australian Financial Review Domain Traveller Good Food Executive Style The Store by Fairfax Drive Adzuna RSVP Essential Baby Essential Kids Weatherzone Tributes Celebrations Place your ad Commercial Real Estate Oneflare Nabo Contact & support Advertise with us Newsletters Accessibility guide Sitemap Subscription packages Subscriber benefits My account Subscriptions FAQs Today 's Paper Photo sales Purchase front pages Fairfax syndication Fairfax events Fairfax careers Conditions of use Privacy policy Press Council Copyright © 2018 [ w1312 ] Elon Musk family feud : Billionaire ’ s father and stepsister have a baby all.esi prod 2018-05-25T00:17:02.584Z 703ff80507f8456f2956abee01e931a1c995e827 url empty ? : 0 ID : 43d3ce604b33c0787d5b7d03043c7b7e ID_Type : CAPIID Is mobile : false 2018-03-28T02:39:59.047Z fb8a924b1ea7aa468da673a663c420e3cb3d2368 adobe pixel not fired end of all.esi Skip to : Main Content Site Navigation Site footer Site Map Hipages Fox Sports SEEK Carsales RealEstate News Network news.com.au News.com.au National World Lifestyle Travel Entertainment Technology Finance Sport Search work leaders Bizarre reason behind Elon Musk ’ s bitter family feud ELON Musk has described his father as a “ terrible human ” . Now a shocking reason for their bitter feud has finally been revealed . Elon Musk . Picture : AFP BILLIONAIRE inventor Elon Musk says his father Errol is a “ terrible human being , ” while Errol says his famous son is a “ spoiled child. ” Now , a possible cause for the bitter Musk family feud has been revealed . The Daily Mail reports that Errol , 72 , has had a baby with his own stepdaughter , who is 42 years his junior . The South African businessman has reportedly fathered a 10-month-old son with his stepdaughter Jana Bezuidenhout , 30 , who was four when he married her mother Heide . In an interview with the Mail , Errol claimed that he could “ barely remember ” Heide , who he was married to for 18 years . Tech inventor Elon Musk is in the middle of a bitter family feud . Picture : Dylan Coker It ’ s reported that Elon went “ berserk ” when he discovered his father and stepsister , who he lived with when he was younger , were in a relationship and would be having a child together . The unusual family situation may go some way to explaining the father and son ’ s bitter public feud , with both Musk men exchanging furious sprays via the media in recent months . Last year , the 46-year-old Tesla and SpaceX founder slammed his father and painted a picture of a lonely , painful upbringing . “ He was such a terrible human being . You have no idea , ” he told Rolling Stone magazine . “ My dad will have a carefully thought-out plan of evil . He will plan evil. ” But Musk would not go into specifics . “ You have no idea about how bad . Almost every crime you can possibly think of , he has done . Almost every evil thing you could possibly think of , he has done ... It ’ s so terrible , you can ’ t believe it. ” But he said his father was “ not physically violent with me , he was only physically violent when I was very young ” . At the time Errol also told the publication via email that he had only ever “ smacked ” Elon once “ on the bottom ” . Elon Musk with ex-girlfriend , actress Amber Heard . Errol recently hit back at his estranged son , describing the billionaire inventor as like a “ spoiled child ” who “ needs to grow up ” — and acknowledging stepdaughter Jana simply as his “ girlfriend. ” “ Elon needs to grow up , ” Errol said . “ He needs to get over himself . I ’ m not going to hit back . I ’ m going to wait until he comes to his senses . He ’ s having a tantrum , like a spoiled child . He can ’ t have what he wants and now I am apparently an evil monster. ” He described Elon ’ s fury at his decision to move back to South Africa as “ tantrum number one ” . Tantrum number two was the pregnancy . “ I got my 30-year-old girlfriend Jana pregnant and we had a baby son , who is now 10 months old , ” he said . “ Of course , I love him dearly , even though it wasn ’ t planned . In my own cautious way I insisted on a DNA test to ensure he was mine . “ I told my daughter Ali about him because I thought she would be supportive and understanding . She said I was insane , mentally ill. She told the others and they went berserk . They think I ’ m getting senile and should go into an old age home , not have a life full of fun and a tiny baby , ” Errol said in the interview , which did not make clear that girlfriend Jana is in fact his stepdaughter . Elon , 46 , has a net worth of more than $ US 20 billion and is currently ranked as the 53rd richest person in the world . Musk had five sons with his first wife , author Justine Wilson , before they separated in 2008 . In 2010 , he married English actress Talulah Riley . The couple divorced in 2012 - only to remarry in 2013 . In December 2014 Musk filed for a second divorce from Riley , which was later withdrawn . Riley then filed for divorce in 2016 , with the divorce finalised later that year . More recently , Musk dated actress and ex-wife to Johnny Depp , Amber Heard , with the relationship lasting one year . Elon today made headlines when he deleted his rocket company SpaceX ’ s verified Facebook page after being challenged to do so on Twitter . “ Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you ’ re the man ? ” a user tweeted to Tesla chief Musk . His response : “ I didn ’ t realise there was one . Will do. ” SpaceX ’ s Facebook page , which had more than 2.7 million followers , is no longer accessible . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton of the # deletefacebook tag . Facebook has been in damage control after it was revealed that it exposed data on 50 million Facebook users to a researcher who worked at Cambridge Analytica , which worked for Donald Trump ’ s election campaign . Ronan Farrow slams estranged dad Woody Allen Woody Allen 's son , Ronan Farrow , has slammed his estranged dad following a recent interview , saying he has no doubt that his father molested his sister . May 12th 2016 2 years ago /display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Entertainment - syndicated/ trending in finance 263 Buying a house : What Australians need to do to fix housing c ... 116 Winning Lotto : Why neighbours of jackpot winners are likely ... 104 Amazon : How to get around the Australian GST rip-off 19 Minimum wage : Fair Work Commission announce pay increase Share on Facebook Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Twitter Share via Email Share via Email Jump back to top MORE IN work One Nation is disintegrating once again Rumours rife Barnaby will quit North Korea ’ s strange burger offer Abused by Elon ’ s ‘ MuskBro ’ trolls Photo reveals China ’ s biggest fear ‘ See me after class , Donald ’ Mysterious heiress and a sex cult ‘ The world is laughing at him ’ FOLLOW US ADVERTISE ABOUT US NEWSLETTERS CONNECT Be rewarded for your opinions Legal : Privacy Policy Relevant Ads Opt-Out Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING : We collect information about the content ( including ads ) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites . Find out more about our policy and your choices , including how to opt-out . News Limited Copyright © 2018 . All times AEST ( GMT +10 ) . [ w1313 ] [ if lte IE 7 ] class= '' ie7 lte8 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' ie8 lte8 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' ie9 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] desktop pages/base/base.jsp pages/base/desktop.jsp pages/base/desktop/head.jsp World 's 500 wealthiest people down $ 436 billion since January afr.com Digital Data Script Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager [ if IE endif ] Always force IE to render in the most recent mode pages/article/desktop/body.jsp Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Help using this website - Accessibility statement Financial Review - afrrr.com Menu Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design All News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports Rear Window Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Gambling Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters to the Editor Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Leadership Management Careers Company Culture Innovation Entrepreneur Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars , Bikes & Boats Health Home Design The Australian Financial Review Magazine Luxury The Sophisticated Traveller SEARCH BAR Toggle the AFR search box Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search SEARCH BAR END Close menu SEARCH BAR Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search SEARCH BAR END Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design Markets Data My Saved Articles Done Select All Remove All News Topic ASX People under construction under construction under construction under construction My Saved Searches Done Select all Delete Home Business pages/article/desktop/content.jsp Mar 24 2018 at 10:54 AM Updated Mar 24 2018 at 10:54 AM Save article My Saved Articles Print World 's 500 wealthiest people down $ 436 billion since January Share Mark Zuckerberg bore the brunt of the fall with $ US10.3 billion wiped from his fortune . NAM Y. HUH It 's been an expensive two months for the world 's 500 wealthiest people . Their combined net worth fell $ US181 billion ( $ 235 billion ) this week as the S & P 500 Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average suffered their steepest weekly drop in more than two years amid heated rhetoric over tariffs and retaliation . The group 's wealth has shrunk $ US436 billion since markets peaked on January 26 . Mark Zuckerberg bore the brunt of the fall with $ US10.3 billion wiped from his fortune on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index . The Facebook founder dropped three places to seventh on the ranking in the aftermath of the Cambridge Analytica scandal . The social network 's shares tumbled 14 per cent following reports it let Cambridge Analytica amass data on 50 million users . The tech downdraft also caught Larry Ellison , down $ US7 billion as Oracle forecast slowing sales growth for cloud-related products . PAUL SAKUMA Shares in other technology-heavy companies that benefit from user data to sell advertising , such as Twitter and Snap , also tumbled as investors worried about a potential regulatory backlash in the US , Europe and beyond . Advertisement Related Quotes 5 years 1 Day Last updated : Last updated : ASX Announcements The Federal Trade Commission is reportedly drafting a `` please explain '' letter to Facebook to seek more details about client Cambridge Analytica accessing data of more than 50 million users without their authorisation – mainly American voters ahead of the 2016 presidential election . The Australian government 's information commissioner has demanded answers , and European and British authorities are also pledging action . The tech downdraft also caught Larry Ellison , down $ US7 billion as Oracle forecast slowing sales growth for cloud-related products . Berkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett , Amazon 's Jeff Bezos and Alphabet 's Larry Page lost $ US17 billion combined . The world 's 500 biggest fortunes now encompass $ US5.2 trillion , according to the index . Bloomberg Share Latest Stories If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . latest stories end Advertisement Related articles If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : pages/article/desktop/footer.jsp content/footer/footer.jsp The 200 richest people in Australia Rich List lodge owners raise the bar at Falls Creek Cardboard king : Inside Anthony Pratt 's empire The man who dresses Rich Listers ' homes What the Lowys will do after Westfield You could soon order pizza through your TV : Menulog The question that could fix bad corporate behaviour Banks face an even bigger threat than rival banks How to escape the maelstrom of leadership demands Microsoft president Brad Smith wants to save the world Why emojis are popping up centre stage @ the NGV 5 of the most exclusive properties for sale this week Luxury treats to spend your money on this week Nura 's smart-looking headphones are smarter than most Why this South Yarra hotel is the new look of luxe Special Reports Get personal finance in order before overseas posting Queensland rainmakers depart Macquarie Private Weath Integrated Portfolio Solutions unwraps new fin services IPO contender Odds on 'light touch ' NEG shorten Storage a critical factor for renewables Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Subscription Terms Digital Subscription Terms Newspaper Subscription Terms Corporate Subscriptions Contact & Feedback About us Our Events FAQ Contact us Letters to the Editor Give feedback Advertise Site Map Accessibility Markets Data Markets Overview World Equities Commodities Currencies Derivatives Interest Rates Share Tables Brands The Australian Financial Review Magazine BOSS AFR Lists Chanticleer Luxury Rear Window The Sophisticated Traveller Fairfax Network The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby Home Price Guide Weatherzone Oneflare The Store © Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Reprints & Permissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions of Use Message for IEX users ( adjust conditional comment and message according to your site 's IE browser support ) [ if lte IE 7 Please upgrade your browser . Internet Explorer 7 is no longer supported . In order to view and use AFR properly and more securely you will need to upgrade to any of the following supported browsers for FREE : , , , , . [ w1314 ] Revealed : the powerful Facebook data matching tool the Liberal Party rejected over legal fears Revealed : the powerful Facebook data matching tool the Liberal Party rejected over legal fears Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Log In Brisbane Times - close Search Site Sections Network Home Brisbane Queensland Politics Federal Queensland NSW Victoria ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National NSW Victoria ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL AFL Rugby Union Soccer Cricket Racing Golf Basketball Cycling Motorsport Tennis Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Netball NFL Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement Exclusive Politics Federal Facebook Revealed : the powerful Facebook data matching tool the Liberal Party rejected over legal fears By John McDuling & Fergus Hunter Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size Facebook approached Australia 's major political parties during the 2016 election with a new and powerful data matching tool , but Liberal strategists rejected the offer out of fear it could breach the law by sending voters ' personal details to the social media giant 's offshore servers . The opportunity for `` advanced matching '' in Facebook 's so-called Custom Audience feature could be used by campaigns as a way to target specific people - including undecided voters in marginal seats - with highly targeted online advertising . Fairfax Media understands Labor has used the tool , however the party declined to say for how long and or reveal what information it may have allowed Facebook to access . Replay The tool would allow parties to match data they had collected about voters - such as ages , emails , phone numbers , postcodes , names and birth dates – against similar information listed by users on their Facebook profiles . The combination of the two data sets would allow parties to target Australians identified as swinging voters with tailored ads when they use Facebook . The revelation of the offer comes amid a global debate over role of social media in political campaigning and , specifically , allegations about Facebook 's influence on the political process . Advertisement Fairfax Media has established a beta version of the advanced matching tool was offered to the Liberal Party in the final weeks of the 2016 federal election , promising a 17 per cent increase in matching rates . But senior party figures declined to use it due to concerns sending local data to overseas servers might violate privacy agreements made by political parties when they access the full electoral roll . The Liberal Party was concerned about possible breaches of the Privacy Act and the Electoral Act , according to sources . Fairfax Media has been told Labor 's campaign used Facebook 's Custom Audience feature . Asked specifically whether Labor used the tool , a Labor spokesman said in a statement : `` A range of different campaign techniques and tools are used for campaigning , from doorknocking to phone banking to online . Labor works with different groups to get our message out , including social media platforms like Facebook . '' `` All of our work is in complete compliance with relevant laws , including the Commonwealth Electoral Act , which makes it a criminal offence to misuse information on the electoral roll . '' The ALP digital team would have `` hashed '' any electoral roll data on a local browser in an attempt to anonymise it , sources said . This would mitigate the potential for personally identifiable information to be uploaded to foreign servers . A spokesman for the Australian Electoral Commission said a range of organisations were allowed to access the electoral roll for purposes permitted under the Electoral Act , which includes political campaigning . `` The Electoral Act itself does not specify arrangements such as storage of data , '' the spokesman said . The Liberals ' decision to turn down the offer underlines the caution many political operatives have adopted in the technically and legally complex arena of social media and data harvesting . The Custom Audiences tool is widely used by brands and advertisers to target potential customers . `` Lots of people use the custom audience tool . Civil society groups use it too with their massive databases . I do n't think it 's anywhere near as sinister as people think , '' a Labor source said . Facebook said in a statement : `` All parties are offered the same training , materials and products - whether existing or new — at the same time . It is a decision for each campaign as to whether and how they choose to use them . '' The company has this week been unable to say whether data of Australian users is hosted locally or offshore . Facebook was this week embroiled in a massive data scandal , in which information of 50 million users was harvested by Cambridge Analytica , a consultancy employed by the Trump campaign during the 2016 US elections . Australia 's privacy commissioner this week said he had contacted Facebook to determine whether any Australians had been caught up by the breach , and raised the possibility of sanctions against the firm if that was the case . Competition boss Rod Sims has also said the incident will be considered in an upcoming review of digital platforms , and their impact on the media industry . License this article Facebook Federal election Privacy Social media John McDuling John McDuling writes about business , technology and the economy . Previously he was a reporter for Quartz in New York , covered telecommunications and markets for the Financial Review , and worked in the finance industry . Fergus Hunter Fergus Hunter is a political reporter for Fairfax Media , based in Parliament House . Most Viewed in Politics Morning & Afternoon Newsletter Delivered Mon–Fri . Email address By signing up you accept our privacy policy and conditions of use Brisbane Times Brisbane Times The Sydney Morning Herald The Age The Canberra Times WAtoday The Australian Financial Review Domain Traveller Good Food Executive Style The Store by Fairfax Drive Adzuna RSVP Essential Baby Essential Kids Weatherzone Commercial Real Estate Oneflare Nabo Contact & support Advertise with us Newsletters Accessibility guide Sitemap Photo sales Fairfax syndication Fairfax events Fairfax careers Conditions of use Privacy policy Press Council Copyright © 2018 [ w1315 ] [ if lte IE 7 ] class= '' ie7 lte8 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' ie8 lte8 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' ie9 lte9 `` lang= '' en-au '' endif ] desktop pages/base/base.jsp pages/base/desktop.jsp pages/base/desktop/head.jsp Get prepared : Major parties eye off social media for next federal election afr.com Digital Data Script Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager [ if IE endif ] Always force IE to render in the most recent mode pages/article/desktop/body.jsp Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Help using this website - Accessibility statement Financial Review - afrrr.com Menu Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design All News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports Rear Window Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Gambling Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters to the Editor Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Leadership Management Careers Company Culture Innovation Entrepreneur Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars , Bikes & Boats Health Home Design The Australian Financial Review Magazine Luxury The Sophisticated Traveller SEARCH BAR Toggle the AFR search box Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search SEARCH BAR END Close menu SEARCH BAR Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search SEARCH BAR END Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design Markets Data My Saved Articles Done Select All Remove All News Topic ASX People under construction under construction under construction under construction My Saved Searches Done Select all Delete Home News Politics National pages/article/desktop/content.jsp Mar 23 2018 at 11:00 PM Updated Mar 23 2018 at 11:00 PM Save article My Saved Articles Print License article Get prepared : Major parties eye off social media for next federal election Share Opposition Leader Bill Shorten and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull are expected to face off again at the ballot box next year . Alex Ellinghausen by It may still be formally 14 months away , but this weekend the Liberal Party is preparing for the 2019 election campaign by reviewing applicants to be its new advertising agency . It may also seem like a routine decision , but it 's the first time since John Howard trounced Paul Keating in the 1996 election that the Liberals have undertaken such a revamp . The party may select a new advertising agency , or a hybrid `` team '' made up of figures from several agencies . Either way , the decision takes on added significance in an unpredictable political environment , where power is more evanescent , and the tools of election campaigning , like social media sites , assume such a crucial role . Meanwhile , the Labor Party , which has contested every federal election since Federation , has a Campaign 2019 team , including its advertising agency , already assembled . Employing a combination of social-media-facilitated techniques for mass voter communication , plus old-fashioned public meetings , it is testing campaign themes and lines among voters in several states . Paul Oosting from GetUp ! says social media `` gives ways for people to help shape our campaign and what we do '' . Alex Ellinghausen It 's a deadly serious business – for both sides . No matter what is spouted in public , or even in private , by party influencers , key figures understand the result of the next federal election is not yet – as they say in the Middle East – `` written '' . Advertisement Related Quotes 5 years 1 Day Last updated : Last updated : ASX Announcements Since the last election , polls have indicated the coalition is 4-6 per cent behind Labor , with two-party preferred votes moving within a narrow band of 52-53 per cent ( ALP ) versus 47-48 per cent ( Coalition ) . An improving economy , however , plus signs that Turnbull is emerging from nearly two years of political flat-lining , combined with popular reservations about Opposition Leader Bill Shorten , make it a more open contest than current opinion polls suggest . Fine line Taking a cue from the old saying that oppositions do n't win elections , governments lose them , the Liberal Party campaign next time around will be treading a fine line between attempting to present an appealing face of a Malcolm Turnbull-led government to voters and unleashing a venomous `` kill Bill '' tirade . This will contrast with the 2016 campaign . The Coalition 's desultory result – it scraped home with a one-seat majority – has often been sheeted home to a long , eight-week election campaign . But Turnbull 's reluctance to attack Shorten – compounded by his nervousness about possible attacks from his predecessor , Tony Abbott – also helped make the campaign lacklustre and Turnbull 's efforts drab , capped by a remarkably graceless election night speech . Then campaign director Tony Nutt copped a lot of flak , but he had only parachuted into the job less than six months before and he , too , was hamstrung by Turnbull 's politically cross-grained persona . The new campaign director is long-time Liberal Party staffer Andrew Hirst . He has had press secretary and deputy chief of staff positions with Liberal leaders Brendan Nelson , Malcolm Turnbull , Tony Abbott and now adds campaign duties to his job as the party 's federal director . Hirst got on well with all three leaders and is now reported to be `` mates '' with Turnbull , even though he was also close to Turnbull 's predecessor in the PM 's job , Tony Abbott . He is regarded inside the Liberal Party as steady , and able to bridge the divide between its more liberal and conservative elements . Hirst also runs a tight ship . The Liberal Party 's own news site , the Fair Go , was launched in June last year , but after just two months it stopped appearing . The website has not added any editorial content since August when it posted a comment by Parnell McGuinness , daughter of former Financial Review editor Paddy McGuinness , on why the National Disability Insurance Scheme should not be framed as welfare . However , no matter how Hirst designs the Liberal Party 's 2016 election campaign in an era of Facebook , Snapchat and Twitter entries , of robo-calls , texts , emails and bots , the result will still largely turn on the state of the economy , and the performances of Turnbull and Shorten . Extraordinary career Turnbull may be performing badly in the polls , but he is showing signs of entering another phase of what can only be described as an extraordinary career . The first period , starting with his announced decision to seek the prime minister 's job when he was still in his teens , goes through university ( Sydney and Oxford ) , working for Kerry Packer ( twice ) , time as a lawyer , investment banker and republic advocate ; and then , barely a few years later , winning a seat and a minister 's job in passionate monarchist John Howard 's Coalition government , is the bulldozer phase . The second period , covering his first , failed , stint as Liberal leader , then a cabinet minister under Tony Abbott , seizing the prize from Abbott in a party-room putsch , soaring then plunging in the polls , only just winning the 2016 election , and continuing to flatline in the polls , can be called the Malcolm in a Muddle phase . Now he may be entering a third period . The successful steering of same-sex marriage into law , easily winning two byelections at the end of last year , a brilliant job in successfully persuading a flaky Donald Trump-led White House to exempt Australian steel exports to the US from new punitive tariffs , the successful hosting of an ASEAN-Australia Summit in Sydney , and increasing signs that he may succeed in having his business tax cuts passed by the Senate , suggest a Malcolm 's Momentum phase is approaching . Or perhaps not . Turnbull 's proclivity for mucking up – from his ridiculous `` utegate '' charges against Labor Prime Minister Kevin Rudd in 2009 to an abortive push for `` tax reform '' in 2016 – has given his career a mercurial flavour . But a Zen-like approach amidst recent challenges has given it a more resilient tone . He will need much Zen-induced resilience over the next year or so . Of the last four federal elections , two – in 2016 and 2010 – have been cliffhangers , so the chances of 2019 proving to be close are strong . Further , the Coalition does not just face Labor , but the social media , crowd-funding savvy of GetUp ! Bridling at claims from the Coalition of being a Labor affiliated body , GetUp ! is a highly effective public advocacy group involved in issues like climate change , renewable energy and mental health . New technology GetUp ! national director Paul Oosting maintains people are `` fed up '' with established political parties and are more attracted to the popular participation model promoted by GetUp ! and facilitated through social media . `` Social media gives ways for people to help shape our campaign and what we do . The old political institutions find it hard to grapple with that . '' Greg Daniel , co-lead of KPMG Australia 's Social Media Advisory group , points out that amid the furore surrounding Cambridge Analytica 's abuse of social media site Facebook 's personal information , 80 per cent of the information in social media sites is publicly available . Moreover , in election campaigns , like the one coming up in Australia next year , operatives from both parties can ratchet up their impact by using information that is `` easier to find out '' on social media sites `` and slice and dice the information and give it to people . '' Social media also facilitates a political party 's ability to `` pivot '' and `` change your message without great expense , and getting to the individual with a message that resonates with him or her '' . `` It 's the difference between old-war technology and new technology . It 's moving from the carpet bombing of World War II to laser-guided missiles , '' Daniel says . Share Advertisement Related articles If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . Contains : If Asset 's byline is not empty , show byline . Otherwise show related author list . pages/article/desktop/footer.jsp content/footer/footer.jsp The 200 richest people in Australia Rich List lodge owners raise the bar at Falls Creek Cardboard king : Inside Anthony Pratt 's empire The man who dresses Rich Listers ' homes What the Lowys will do after Westfield You could soon order pizza through your TV : Menulog The question that could fix bad corporate behaviour Banks face an even bigger threat than rival banks How to escape the maelstrom of leadership demands Microsoft president Brad Smith wants to save the world Why emojis are popping up centre stage @ the NGV 5 of the most exclusive properties for sale this week Luxury treats to spend your money on this week Nura 's smart-looking headphones are smarter than most Why this South Yarra hotel is the new look of luxe Special Reports Get personal finance in order before overseas posting Queensland rainmakers depart Macquarie Private Weath Integrated Portfolio Solutions unwraps new fin services IPO contender Odds on 'light touch ' NEG shorten Storage a critical factor for renewables Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Subscription Terms Digital Subscription Terms Newspaper Subscription Terms Corporate Subscriptions Contact & Feedback About us Our Events FAQ Contact us Letters to the Editor Give feedback Advertise Site Map Accessibility Markets Data Markets Overview World Equities Commodities Currencies Derivatives Interest Rates Share Tables Brands The Australian Financial Review Magazine BOSS AFR Lists Chanticleer Luxury Rear Window The Sophisticated Traveller Fairfax Network The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby Home Price Guide Weatherzone Oneflare The Store © Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Reprints & Permissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions of Use Message for IEX users ( adjust conditional comment and message according to your site 's IE browser support ) [ if lte IE 7 Please upgrade your browser . Internet Explorer 7 is no longer supported . In order to view and use AFR properly and more securely you will need to upgrade to any of the following supported browsers for FREE : , , , , . [ w1316 ] [ if lte IE 7 ] class= '' ie ie7 '' lang= '' en-US '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' ie ie8 '' lang= '' en-US '' endif ] [ if gt IE 8 class= '' ie '' lang= '' en-US '' endif ] [ if ! ( IE 7 ) & ! ( IE 8 ) endif ] Facing up to privacy issues Shepparton News Begin Header Area Home News Sport Opinion Entertainment Lifestyle Education Events Your stuff From the archives Blogs LGBTI Richard 's Ramblings LADY GARDENIA Camera Club The Art Shed Foxy & JR More News Local News Regional News Rural News National News Home News Sport Opinion Entertainment Lifestyle Education Events Your stuff From the archives Blogs LGBTI Richard 's Ramblings LADY GARDENIA Camera Club The Art Shed Foxy & JR Sign Up Local News Regional News Rural News National News 16° Shepparton Login Sign Up a href= '' # '' class= '' header__heading-link '' id= '' login '' Sign In Start Search Bar end search Bar start profile Details end //End Header Area Opinion Facing up to privacy issues Follow Shepparton News + Opinion Facing up to privacy issues by Shepparton News March 24 , 2018 FILE - In this June 21 , 2017 , file photo , Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks during preparation for the Facebook Communities Summit , in Chicago . Zuckerberg embarked on a rare media mini-blitz Wednesday , March 22 , 2018 , in the wake of a privacy scandal involving a Trump-connected data-mining firm . ( AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh , File ) Share Share Share Email Share Share Share Email This week , the social media-born ‘ hashtag ’ fought back against its origins . In the wake of Facebook ’ s data-poaching scandal , users began the hashtag # DeleteFacebook . I must admit , it ’ s something I have wanted to do myself , long before I found out what Cambridge Analytica was . Having recently been reminded by Facebook itself that I joined an entire decade ago and , with a continuing shift in social media culture within my own social circles , I began to think deeply about what this platform actually contributes to my day-to-day life . Facebook was something I signed up for after using social media platform MySpace for several years . It was a time when social media was emerging in popularity after youngsters had spent many years chatting via instant messenger program MSN . Eventually , Facebook became the only platform social media users engaged with and MySpace was forgotten . In those days social media was still used for just that — being social . It was a way to keep tabs on what your friends were up to and keep in touch with those who lived in far-flung places . Over time , my newsfeed has become inundated with political messages I disagree with , memes , videos and the loud opinions of some of my ‘ friends ’ . The only times I post is to say ‘ Happy Birthday ’ or share an image or two . It is a very rare occasion when I read a ‘ status ’ posted by one of my friends and scrolling through my newsfeed has become a distraction rather than an informative exercise . Since it launched in February 2004 , Facebook has morphed into its own country with about twobillion citizens . This week , a bungle with Facebook ’ s privacy policy in 2014 was brought into the spotlight , causing intense scrutiny to be placed on founder Mark Zuckerberg . In short , former Cambridge Analytica employee Christopher Wylie blew the whistle on the company spending $ 1million to access the data of Facebook users . According to an article published on The Guardian ’ s website , academic Aleksandr Kogan had harvested the data from users via a personality quiz on the social network and , through his company Global Science Research , had shared it with Cambridge Analytica . Social media commentator Shelly Palmer this week said Facebook ’ s privacy policies in 2014 were naive and self-serving . ‘ ‘ When they figured out what was really happening they either didn ’ t understand exactly how serious it was and didn ’ t do enough to deal with it , or , they knew exactly how serious it was and didn ’ t do enough to deal with it . ‘ ‘ Either way , they are certainly dealing with it now. ’ ’ Mr Zuckerberg fought back against the accusations on his own Facebook page , posting ‘ ‘ we already took the most important steps a few years ago in 2014 to prevent bad actors from accessing people ’ s information in this way ’ ’ . He has outlined further steps Facebook will take to ensure the protection of users ’ data into the future — but is it too little too late ? After all , our privacy has become basically non-existent since the rise of technology and the internet . For the first time , users are questioning the status-quo of social media and are seeking change from the top down . But if you ’ re like me , perhaps you ’ re already eager to follow the hashtag and # DeleteFacebook . Tara Whitsed is a journalist at The News . By Shepparton News March 24 , 2018 Share Share Share Email Begin Sidebar n You might also like Opinion Beat the chill with crayfish Beat the chill with crayfish by Shepparton News Jun 01 2018 Opinion Lost without my power spot Lost without my power spot by Shepparton News Jun 01 2018 Opinion Letters to the editor Letters to the editor by Shepparton News Jun 01 2018 Begin Ads //End Ads Opinion Road safety in the fast lane Road safety in the fast lane by Shepparton News Jun 01 2018 Opinion Worshipping God changes your focus Worshipping God changes your focus by Contributor May 30 2018 Opinion We can all do more to prevent homelessness We can all do more to prevent homelessness by Deniliquin Pastoral Times May 30 2018 Opinion School holds party to say thanks to mums School holds party to say thanks to mums by Shepparton News May 31 2018 Opinion It pays to be loving , caring It pays to be loving , caring by Shepparton News May 31 2018 start Disqus comment box Comments ( ) end disqus comment box More in Shepparton News Sport Winners and losers It is every racing club ’ s worst nightmare , but secretly Echuca Racing Club must be loving it . by Sheppa June 02 , 2018 Sport Cats coach still confident Finley started the Murray Football League season in searing form , claiming four wins from as many by Tyler June 02 , 2018 Lifestyle Visionaries lending a hand Shepparton ’ s Vision Australia volunteers were this week treated to a delicious spread of by Tara W June 02 , 2018 Lifestyle Iftar – cultural melting pot As the holy month of Ramadan continues into June , Shepparton Muslims have always made the most of by Sheppa June 02 , 2018 ADHESION HTML CODE Can be placed anywhere inside the body tag ADHESION HTML CODE Copyright McPherson Media Group 2018 Powered by Cognitives Home News Sport Opinion Entertainment Lifestyle Education Events Local News Regional News Rural News National News Contact us Advertising Digital Edition About Us General Use Policy Privacy Policy Login Sign Up Email Password Forgot Password ? Remember Password Login with Twitter Login with Facebook Login with Google+ Login with Linkedin Sign up with Twitter Sign up with Facebook First Name Sign up with Google+ Sign up with Linkedin Last Name Email Password Verify Password I Agree to the terms & conditions Edit Social Modal Edit Social Post Save Welcome ! End Modal Dummy text Begin Javascripts ( Load javascripts at bottom , this will reduce page load time ) Start of cognitives Zendesk Widget script End of cognitives Zendesk Widget script Begin Page Navigation Plugins //End Page Navigation Plugins Google Map Api Library Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) [ w1317 ] [ if lt IE 7 class= '' no-js ie lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 '' lang= '' en '' endif ] [ if IE 7 class= '' no-js ie lt-ie9 lt-ie8 ie7 '' lang= '' en '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' no-js ie lt-ie9 ie8 '' lang= '' en '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' no-js ie ie9 '' lang= '' en '' [ w1318 ] MacLeod loves you ! Cambridge Analytica again says no Facebook data used in US election - CNET CNET también está disponible en español . Ir a español Do n't show this again Reviews Best Products Versus Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Monitors Networking Phones Printers Smart Home Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News Apple Computers Culture Google Internet Microsoft Mobile Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features CNET @ Work Photo Galleries Video CNET Top 5 How To Smart Home Tech Today News Special Features 3:59 CNET Podcasts Laptops Phones Tablets TVs How To Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Phones Photography Security Smart Home Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product Compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Home Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Best Cars News Reviews Recalls Pictures AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Concept Cars Electric Cars The Best Affordable Cars Crossovers Electric Cars Family Cars Hybrids Luxury Cars Sedans SUVs Games Download Australia China France Germany Japan Korea Middle East United Kingdom US Editions English Español My Profile Forums Sign Out Security Cambridge Analytica again says no Facebook data used in US election In a lengthy statement , acting CEO Alexander Tayler says he wants to make that point `` absolutely clear . '' Cambridge Analytica 's acting CEO reiterated Friday that the company did n't use Facebook data it received through a third-party research agency in its work with the Trump campaign during the election . `` Please can I be absolutely clear , '' Alexander Tayler said in a statement on the company 's site , `` we did not use any GSR data in the work we did in the 2016 US presidential election . '' Cambridge Analytica is at the heart of a scandal that 's stirred up two national governments and the world 's largest social network . Last Friday , reports by The New York Times and the Britian 's Guardian and Observer newspapers said the UK-based data consultancy through methods that violated Facebook 's policies . The company is accused of holding on to the data after Facebook asked it to delete the files , and then using the information to socially engineer public opinion of the UK 's Brexit referendum and to manipulate US voters in the 2016 presidential campaign . GSR refers to the research company that initially obtained the data and then went against Facebook 's rules by sharing the info with Cambridge Analytica . Cambridge Analytica said at the time that it had n't used the data in its work with Trump 's 2016 presidential campaign . Tayler 's statement today repeats that assertion . Tayler , who 'd been Cambridge Analytica 's chief data officer , was made acting CEO on Tuesday after the company 's board . The suspension followed the release of undercover footage showing Nix discussing and . Did Facebook lose control of your information ? The lengthy message posted to Cambridge Analytica 's website details the company 's actions at the time , and what it 's doing now to prove it did indeed delete the data . Here 's Cambridge Analytica acting CEO Alexander Tayler 's message in full : As a data scientist I deeply believe in fairness and transparency in the way data is collected and processed . I am sorry that in 2014 SCL Elections ( an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica ) licensed Facebook data and derivatives from a research company ( GSR ) that had not received consent from most respondents . The company believed that the data had been obtained in line with Facebook 's terms of service and data protection laws . I became Chief Data Officer for Cambridge Analytica in October 2015 . Shortly after , Facebook requested that we delete the data . We immediately deleted the raw data from our file server , and began the process of searching for and removing any of its derivatives in our system . When Facebook sought further assurances a year ago , we carried out an internal audit to make sure that all the data , all derivatives and backups had been deleted , and gave Facebook a certificate to this effect . Please can I be absolutely clear : we did not use any GSR data in the work we did in the 2016 US presidential election . We are now undertaking an independent third-party audit to verify that we do not hold any GSR data . We have been in touch with the UK Information Commissioner 's Office ( ICO ) since February 2017 , when we hosted its team in our London office to provide total transparency on the data we hold , how we process it , and the legal basis for us processing it . I want to make sure we remain committed to helping the ICO in their investigations . The recent media frenzy has been distressing . The source of allegations against the company is not a whistleblower or a founder of the company . Christopher Wylie was a part-time contractor who left in July 2014 and has no direct knowledge of our work or practices since that date . He was at the company for less than a year , after which he was made the subject of restraining undertakings to prevent his misuse of the company 's intellectual property while attempting to set up his own rival firm . Cambridge Analytica was formed in 2013 , out of a much older company called SCL Elections . Cambridge Analytica is a data science consultancy and marketing agency which does undertake some political work in the US , while SCL Elections is a consultancy focusing on non-US political campaigns . We take the disturbing recent allegations of unethical practices in our non-US political business very seriously . The Board has launched a full and independent investigation into SCL Elections ' past practices , and its findings will be made available in due course . As anyone who is familiar with our staff and work can testify , we in no way resemble the politically-motivated and unethical company that some have sought to portray . Our staff are a talented , diverse and vibrant group of people . I believe that we should all have more control over our data , and there should be more transparency over how and when it is used . I welcome Europe 's new data protection laws ( GDPR ) . There are very good reasons for updating current data regulations , which date back years to a very different time . From giving everyone more protection , to promoting a more equal privacy landscape , these changes will be good for the industry as a whole . Elon Musk scraps SpaceX , Tesla pages on Facebook Security : Stay up-to-date on the latest in breaches , hacks , fixes and all those cybersecurity issues that keep you up at night . Blockchain Decoded : CNET looks at the tech powering bitcoin and soon , too , a myriad of services that will change your life . Share your voice Tags Security Politics Cambridge Analytica Facebook Close General comments Sign in to comment Be respectful , keep it clean and stay on topic . We delete comments that violate our policy , which we encourage you to read . Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion . Apple 's WWDC 2018 : Forget the gadgets , it 's all about services and software Download the CNET app About CNET Privacy Policy Ad Choice Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Help Center © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved . Affiliate Disclosure CNET may get a commission from retail offers . Top Brands [ w1319 ] Musk deletes Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX after challenged on Twitter react-empty : 5 Yahoo Search Search react-text : 10 News /react-text react-text : 45 Latest /react-text react-text : 48 National /react-text react-text : 51 World /react-text react-text : 54 Sunrise /react-text react-text : 57 Sunday Night /react-text react-text : 60 The Daily Edition /react-text react-text : 63 The Morning Show /react-text react-text : 66 More /react-text react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 Musk deletes Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX after challenged on Twitter 23March,2018 react-empty : 2 react-empty : 2 ( Reuters ) - Verified Facebook pages of Elon Musk 's rocket company SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla Inc disappeared on Friday , minutes after the Silicon Valley billionaire promised on Twitter to take down the pages when challenged by users . `` Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you 're the man ? '' a user tweeted to Tesla Chief Executive Musk . His response : `` I did n't realize there was one . Will do . '' ( http : //bit.ly/2pDcu3l ) Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on the # deletefacebook tag . The hashtag gained prominence after the world 's largest social network upset users by mishandling data , which ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica - a political consultancy that worked on U.S. President Donald Trump 's 2016 election campaign . `` What 's Facebook ? '' Musk tweeted . Many users also urged the billionaire to delete the profiles of his companies on Facebook 's photo-sharing app Instagram . `` Instagram 's probably ok ... so long as it stays fairly independent , '' Musk responded . `` I do n't use FB & never have , so do n't think I 'm some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we don ’ t advertise or pay for endorsements , so ... do n't care . '' Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Last year , a war of words broke out between Musk and Zuckerberg over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators . When Zuckerberg was asked about Musk 's views on the dangers of robots , he chided `` naysayers '' whose `` doomsday scenarios '' were `` irresponsible . '' ( https : //reut.rs/2HWadYQ ) In response , Musk tweeted : `` His understanding of the subject is limited . '' Telsa CEO Elon Musk 's Upcoming Comedy Project : Watch news , TV and more on Yahoo View . ( Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee and Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru ; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty ) react-empty : 2 What to read next Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be HuffPost Yahoo7 News HuffPost Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 Be react-empty : 62 react-empty : 65 react-empty : 66 bf1-sdarlaws-016.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 04:10:01 UTC 2018 [ w1324 ] [ if lt IE 7 ] class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 '' lang= '' en '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //www.facebook.com/2008/fbml irishtimes : http : //www.irishtimes.com/ '' version= '' HTML+RDFa 1.1 '' endif ] [ if IE 7 class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 '' lang= '' en '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //www.facebook.com/2008/fbml irishtimes : http : //www.irishtimes.com/ '' version= '' HTML+RDFa 1.1 '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' no-js lt-ie9 '' lang= '' en '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //www.facebook.com/2008/fbml irishtimes : http : //www.irishtimes.com/ '' version= '' HTML+RDFa 1.1 '' endif ] [ if IE 9 class= '' no-js eq-ie9 '' lang= '' en '' prefix= '' og : http : //ogp.me/ns # fb : http : //www.facebook.com/2008/fbml irishtimes : http : //www.irishtimes.com/ '' version= '' HTML+RDFa 1.1 '' endif ] Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Google Optimize Page hiding snippet End Google Optimize Page hiding snippet # WheresZuck , Weinstein debts and the city with best quality of life Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) Subscribe Masthead area Sat , Jun 2 , 2018 Top level menu News Sport Business Opinion Life & Style Culture More Video Podcasts Executive Jobs Subscribe Sign In Business The Economy Budget 2018 Small Business Push down menu The Economy Budget 2018 Small Business Your Money Personal Finance Exchange Rates Markets Funds Tracker Companies Financial Services Agribusiness & Food Energy & Resources Health & Pharma Manufacturing Media & Marketing Retail & Services Transport & Tourism Technology How to ... Data Privacy Tech Tools Work Businessperson Awards Commercial Property Construction Comment Columnists Innovation Paradise Papers Entrepreneur of the Year AIB Start-up Academy Podcasts Business Podcast Tech & Innovation Top1000 Cookie Policy notice [ if lte IE 8 The website has been optimised for modern web browsers ; for the best experience , please X [ w1325 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd '' BEGIN : Header Bidding END : Header Bidding ella Data firm draws eye of Mueller in inquiry Google Tag Manager head End Google Tag Manager JQUERY ADG ad blocking tracking AP MARKETS WIDGET Place this render call where appropriate taboola script for head taboola was here NDN videos Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag Quantcast Tag , part 1 Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) body End Google Tag Manager ( noscript ) Epaper Little Rock under widget SPONSORSHIP AD FOR WEATHER // search Home Archives Latest Arkansas 2018 Elections Arkansas Politics Crime Legislature National National Politics Opinion/Voices Religion Right2Know Traffic Map Weather Weird News World Today 's Newspaper News Obituaries Arkansas Jobs Markets Technology Today 's Newspaper Business Weekend Movies Music LR-area restaurant inspections Dining Today 's Newspaper Events TV Listings Puzzles & Games Entertainment Arkansas Razorbacks-WholeHogSports High School-Preps UA UALR ASU UCA Horse Racing Wally Hall- Like It Is Blog-Recruiting Guy College Football College Basketball Olympics NFL NBA MLB PGA NHL NASCAR TENNIS SOCCER Little Rock Marathon Today 's Newspaper Sports Photo Galleries Staff Galleries & Multimedia AP Photos Top 10 Photos All Sports Top Trending Videos News Recruiting Video Galleries Videos Food High Profile Religion Style Travel Wedding/Engagement Announcements Anniversary Announcements Arkansas Bridal Community Special Sections Dear Abby Columnists Polls Previous Features Features Events Classifieds Jobs Homes Autos Core Values Crime Right2Know Traffic Email Newsletters Archives News Tip Whole Hog Sports Arkansas Life Place an Ad Arkansas Daily Deal TRAFFIC ALERT : ! Friday , June 01 , 2018 , 11:10 p.m. ADVERTISEMENT / / Data firm draws eye of Mueller in inquiry [ w1326 ] __ __ _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ |__ ( _ ) _ __ ( _ ) _ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _ ` '__/ _ \ ' _ \| '__| ' _ \ / _ ` \ V V / __/ ( _| __/ ( _| \_/\_/ \___| \__ , _|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__ , |___/ Ever thought about joining us ? https : //workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - The Facebook scandal isn ’ t just about privacy . Your economic future is on the line James Ball Opinion The Guardian Skip to main content US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons More The Facebook scandal isn ’ t just about privacy . Your economic future is on the line Contact author @ jamesrbuk Fri 23 Mar 2018 Last modified on Sat 24 Mar 2018 ‘ Despite the huge value created by our data , we have handed it over in exchange for little more than the services these companies provide. ’ Photograph : Jeff Blackler/Rex Whenever a technological revolution brings upheaval to the world , it initially benefits the small number of people at its forefront to the detriment of others . When the industrial revolution brought about the birth of mass production , it led to thousands of skilled , independent workers losing their trades and much of their livelihoods , facing either unemployment or less-skilled work in the new factories , with the loss of autonomy that entailed . In time , as the law and society caught up with the pace of change , people started achieving protections : workers ’ rights , limits to the number of hours that could be worked , improved safety in the workplace and more . This is a level of wealth concentration not seen in living memory – it was last at comparable levels in the roaring 20s It might now be clear to all of us that the industrial revolution was overwhelmingly a good thing for the world and for our standard of living – but it took decades of pressure and action for government to make sure those benefits were widely – if not evenly – shared . This is a lesson for us in the modern era , with its accompanying information age revolution , and tells us why the ramifications of Facebook ’ s current scandal go far wider than many might suggest . What started as a row over how Cambridge Analytica harvested data of 50 million Facebook users , mainly in the US , has quickly expanded into a long-overdue public debate on how Facebook and other internet giants collect , handle and package our data to make their multibillion-dollar profits . As well as our privacy and the risk to our political processes , the issue of who has the rights to our data could decide our economic future . It is clear that in the aggregate , our personal information – even relatively innocuous details such as our browser search history – is worth a vast amount of money . Alphabet , the parent company of Google , has come to be valued at more than $ 720bn in the space of 20 years , with most of that derived from its advertising and information efforts . Facebook , which has just celebrated its 14th birthday , is still worth more than $ 475bn , even after taking a pummelling all week . Both of those valuations – together topping a trillion dollars – are a reflection of the worth of our data , and the rights those companies hold on it based on what billions of us agreed to in our terms and conditions . ‘ The valuations of Facebook and Alphabet , Google ’ s parent , are a reflection of the worth of our data. ’ Photograph : Mark Lennihan/AP Despite the huge value created by our data , we have handed it over in exchange for little more than the services these companies provide . Now we know its true worth – something we couldn ’ t have predicted when these companies were young – we should ask whether this trade-off is remotely fair . If , as has been said , data is the new oil , then the oil wells are in the hands of a few billionaires , and we ’ re being pumped through the pipes . To see the extent to which this is true , we need look no further than the increase in American wealth held by the richest 0.1 % ( about 160,000 families ) of US society . It has risen from 7 % in 1978 to more than 20 % today , according to Stanford University research , with the bulk of this increase happening in the dotcom era . This is a level of wealth concentration not seen in living memory – it was last at comparable levels during the roaring 20s – and it ’ s accompanied by regular workers taking ever-smaller slices of the pie . Research by the OECD shows the share of GDP going to workers dropped in advanced economies between 1970 and 2014 , with UK workers getting about 6 % less , and US workers more than 10 % less . In other words wealth and power are concentrating ever more in the hands of a tiny elite , with the rest of us trying to cling on to what we have . It would be absurd to say technology is the only reason for this trend : the economic policies of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher kickstarted it , perpetuated by the economic legacies of successor governments . Why have we given up our privacy to Facebook and other sites so willingly ? Read more But despite Silicon Valley ’ s messianic messaging about bringing the world together and decentralising power , technology – and specifically the data and information industry – is concentrating the currency of the future in a very small number of hands . It is clear that Cambridge Analytica has serious questions to answer about how it harvested and used data . Facebook has begun to acknowledge that is has explaining to do in how it uses data and packages its users to advertisers . These are both good and important debates to have . But in a world where increasingly , data means power and money , we should also be asking ourselves the bigger question of who owns and controls our data – and how we can change this unequal relationship . James Ball is a former Guardian special projects editor Media Opinion Inequality Privacy Data protection Social networking Alphabet comment View all comments Order by newest oldest recommendations Show 25 50 100 All Threads collapsed expanded unthreaded Loading comments… Trouble loading ? View more comments Most viewed The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies . All rights reserved . [ w1327 ] [ if lt IE 7 ] class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 '' endif ] [ if IE 7 class= '' no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 '' endif ] [ if IE 8 class= '' no-js lt-ie9 '' [ w1328 ] Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/Top/articleMetaTop Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/article3 Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/articleHead3 Looks lame anyway ’ : Elon Musk just deleted Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX - on a dare . End Global/Templates/Objects/articleHead3 GUID:2209B87F-31F2-48E2-959C-6BD18C604141 End Global/Templates/Objects/article3 Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/article101 begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-Frame1.pbo ad position is blank on HI tampabay End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-Frame1.pbo Begin Media Bong Advertisment script ad-oustream begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-outstrean.pbo AD position is blanked on HI tampabay for Now End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-outstrean.pbo End Media Bong Advertisment script ad-oustream container starts END HI/Templates/Macros/Top/articleTop Begin findit HI/templates/macros/Top/defaultHeader Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/legal/gdprPrivacyBanner X Notice Your privacy is important to us . We have updated our privacy policy to better explain how we use data on this site . Read it here End Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/legal/gdprPrivacyBanner HEADER STARTS HERE Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-position1.pbo DFP position name : TOPLEADERBOARD End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-position1.pbo End advertisement SKYLINKS START HERE APPS CLASSIFIED CARS JOBS HOMES SUBSCRIBER SERVICES LEGAL ADS ADVERTISE PRESS RELEASES ARCHIVES ACCOUNT Unlimited Access Manage Account Activate Subscribe SUBSCRIBE MY ACCOUNT STARTS HERE MY ACCOUNT ENDS HERE SKYLINKS END HERE DATE AND WEATHER STARTS HERE Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/weather/WSI_WX_conditions Begin findit HI/templates/objects/contenlistitem34 report time 6/2/2018 3:53:00 AM UTC End HI/templates/objects/contenlistitem34 End Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/weather/WSI_WX_conditions Start advertisement begin findit /HI/templates/macros/snippets/google/dfp_ad_includes/ad-site-sponsor-weather.pbo DFP position name : SiteSponsorWeather End /HI/templates/macros/snippets/google/dfp_ad_includes/ad-site-sponsor-weather.pbo End advertisement DATE AND WEATHER ENDS HERE LOGO STARTS HERE Friday , June 01 , 2018 LOGO ENDS HERE SKYLINKS VERTICALS SEARCH STARTS HERE VERTICALS AND SEARCH CONTAINER STARTS HERE CONNECT STARTS Today 's Paper E-Newspaper CONNECT ENDS Start advertisement begin findit /HI/templates/macros/snippets/google/dfp_ad_includes/ad-site-sponsor-search.pbo DFP position name : SiteSponsorSearch /4605/TPC/SiteSponsorSearch blank for now End /HI/templates/macros/snippets/google/dfp_ad_includes/ad-site-sponsor-search.pbo End advertisement VERTICALS AND SEARCH CONTAINER ENDS HERE SKYLINKS VERTICALS SEARCH ENDS HERE Navigation Begin findit HI/templates/objects/navigation1 Home Manage Account Subscribe Apps Classifieds Cars Jobs Homes Apartments Subscriber Services Manage Account New Subscription Register Forgot Password Contact Us FAQs Legal Ads Advertise Press Releases Archives Home News Breaking News Blogs Live Blog All Eyes Photo Blog The Feed The Gradebook Times Style WriteLane John Romano ALL BLOGS Business & Finance Pinellas St. Pete Times Clearwater & North Pinellas Hillsborough South and Central Tampa Brandon and South Shore Northwest Hillsborough and New Tampa Pasco East Pasco Things To Do Land O Lakes Things To Do Trinity Things To Do Wesley Chapel Things To Do West Pasco Things To Do Hernando BrooksVille / East Hernando Things To Do Spring Hill / West Hernando Things To Do Florida Education Health Obituaries US/World Bizarre News Weather Hurricane Guide Special Topics News in Education ( NIE ) Politics The Buzz Blog BayBuzz Blog PolitiFact PolitiFact Florida PunditFact Adam C. Smith Steve Bousquet Alex Leary Sports Scores & Stats Rays Bucs Lightning Bulls Seminoles Gators HomeTeam Outdoors Rowdies Bucs Beat The Heater ( Rays ) Lightning Strikes USF Sports Bulletin Sunshine State Report All Blogs Golf Auto Racing Storm Things To Do Music & Concerts Food Dining Recipes Cooking Bars & Spirits Craft Beer Top 50 Restaurants 2018 Events Movies Weekend Planner Stage Art Date Night Kids Neighborhoods Downtown Tampa South Tampa Ybor City Downtown St. Pete Tarpon Springs South Pinellas Beaches West Pasco More Neighborhoods Blogs Times Style Soundcheck Travel Movie Times On Scene Videos Video Opinion Perspective Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter to the Editor Tim Nickens Bill Maxwell Daniel Ruth Sue Carlton John Romano Ernest Hooper Dan DeWitt Features & More Features Relationships Weddings Fashion Pop Culture Good Reads Entertainment News TV & Media Movies Stuck in the 80s Floridian Magazine Bay Magazine Books Pets Parenting Games TV Listings Movie Times Special Topics Scientology Worst Charities LifeTimes Senior Living Guide Blog Index Sitemap Contact Us Circulars End findit /HI/templates/objects/navigation1 HEADER ENDS HERE MAST HEAD CONTAINER ENDS HERE Chartbeat Analytics Headline Tester Script . Begin Findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/analytics/chartbeatHLtester Chartbeat Analytics Headline Testing . End Chartbeat Analytics Headline Testing End Findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/analytics/chartbeatHLTester HEADER CONTAINER ENDS HERE CONTENT CONTAINER STARTS HERE End findit HI/templates/macros/Top/defaultHeader Comments should be added below since any space or comments added before triggers quirks mode in IE Document Name : gen_art.pbs Purpose : Default article template ( loads header , content , footer and global variables ) Created : 20120814 SSW Modified : 20120814 SSW - added the folllowing macros : 2 setGlobalVars.pbo , 1 header.pbo , 1 articleContentLeft.pbo , 1 articleContentRight.pbo , and 1 footer.pbo . 20120830 SSW - changed wording and removed cachequalifier values PBS Macro Tags SetGlobalVars - Sets and creates global variables . SetGlobalVars ( uncached ) - Uncached and should be used to set variables . articleTop - Contains everything from the opening DOCTYPE declaration to the closing tag for the mast-head is in this file . defaultHeader - Contains the navigation , logo , weather and the current date . articleContentRight - Contains all the HTML for the right side of the page aka side rail . defaultFooter - Contains all the HTML for the footer section of the site Start content Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/articleContentLeft Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/article1 Begin findit HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-top DFP position name : Header Dynamic Pencil End findit HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-top Start Drama Bar End Drama Bar findit Global/Templates/Macros/Main/placeholder-breadcrumbNavigation findit Global/Templates/Objects/breadcrumb101 News Roundup end findit Global/Templates/Objects/breadcrumb101 Begin findit GlobalPaths/Templates/Macros/snippets/blogs/logo_area End findit GlobalPaths/Templates/Macros/snippets/blogs/logo_area Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/share_buttons/share End Global/Templates/snippets/share_buttons/share Start Head tag from article 1 Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/articleHead1 Mark 1 Looks lame anyway ’ : Elon Musk just deleted Facebook pages of Tesla , SpaceX - on a dare . SJJ : Placed here because it must be the same level as articlepicture.pbo and extrapictures.pbo End Global/Templates/Objects/articleHead1 End Head tag from article 1 Begin findit Global/Templates/objects/articlePicture1 In this file photo , Elon Musk , founder , CEO of SpaceX and CEO of Tesla Inc. , speaks at a news conference after the Falcon 9 SpaceX heavy rocket launched successfully from the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral . [ AP Photo/John Raoux , File , February 2018 ] End Global/Templates/objects/articlePicture1 End Global/Templates/Objects/article1 Begin findit HI/Templates/Objects/article51 Start LatestStory Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem50 Why the Rays keep trading with the Mariners End Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem50 RECOMMENDED READING End LatestStory Begin findit HI/Templates/Objects/articlebyline Else ID Counter End HI/Templates/Objects/articlebyline Published : Updated : Starts article content Starts right rail blocks Ends right rail blocks Begin findit /HI/Templates/Objects/articleParagraph51_1 begin findit /HI/templates/macros/snippets/google/dfp_ad_includes/ad-skyscraper.pbo DFP position name : Skyscraper MARK 3 End /HI/templates/macros/snippets/google/dfp_ad_includes/ad-skyscraper.pbo To the delight of many of his Twitter followers , Tesla and SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk on Friday followed through on a promise to delete the Facebook pages of both companies , flushing more than 5 million combined `` likes '' down the digital drain on a whim . The Facebook pages for the automaker and aerospace innovator have been replaced by a default page noting that `` content isn ’ t available right now . '' Musk apparently decided to take down the pages while responding to posts on Twitter , including one from Brian Acton , the co-founder of the Facebook-owned WhatsApp . Acton ’ s tweet included the hashtag # deletefacebook . That exchange led to a dare , as well as the revelation that Musk was unaware his aerospace company had a Facebook page tweeting : `` I didn ’ t realize there was one . Will do . '' I didn ’ t realize there was one . Will do . — Elon Musk ( @ elonmusk ) March 23 , 2018 It didn ’ t take long for Musk to go on to delete Tesla ’ s Facebook page , noting that the page `` looks lame anyway . '' Definitely . Looks lame anyway . — Elon Musk ( @ elonmusk ) March 23 , 2018 By deleting ( or ordering someone else to do so ) his company ’ s Facebook pages , Musk joined an online movement calling for Facebook users to sever their ties to the social media giant . The movement began with the revelation that Cambridge Analytica - a political marketing firm that worked with Donald Trump ’ s presidential campaign - improperly harvested the data of 50 million Facebook users , raising new questions about the network ’ s ability to protect user data . SpaceX and Tesla have not disappeared from social media entirely . Accounts for both companies remain active on Instagram , which is owned by Facebook . `` Instagram ’ s probably ok imo , so long as it stays fairly independent , '' Musk wrote on Twitter after calls for him to delete Tesla and SpaceX accounts on Instagram mounted Friday . `` I don ’ t use FB & never have , so don ’ t think I ’ m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . '' `` Also , '' he added , `` we don ’ t advertise or pay for endorsements , so . . . don ’ t care . '' Instagram ’ s probably ok imo , so long as it stays fairly independent . I don ’ t use FB & never have , so don ’ t think I ’ m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we don ’ t advertise or pay for endorsements , so … don ’ t care . — Elon Musk ( @ elonmusk ) March 23 , 2018 We ’ ve never advertised with FB . None of my companies buy advertising or pay famous people to fake endorse . Product lives or dies on its own merits . — Elon Musk ( @ elonmusk ) March 23 , 2018 End /HI/Templates/Objects/articleParagraph51_1 Related Facts End article content Begin Article Links Footer findit Global/Templates/Macros/articlelinksfooter End Article Links Footer Begin Newspaper subscription Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/newspaper_subscription Global version is blank , snippet controlled at the property level . End Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/newspaper_subscription End Newspaper subscription Begin findit Global/Templates/snippets/share_buttons/share-bottom Start story share End story share End Global/Templates/snippets/share_buttons/share-bottom Start YIELDMO Snippet Begin findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/yieldmo/yieldmo_article End HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/yieldmo/yieldmo_article End YIELDMO Snippet Most Read Snippet Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/special_mostread Trending Now Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 When a 'service dog ' gives birth at Tampa airport , controversy takes flight End findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Who ’ s allowed to charge a fee for using credit cards in Florida ? End findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 St. Pete in talks with TECO to discuss biogas project End findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Florida jury leaves $ 4 to family of man killed by sheriff ’ s deputies End findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Why the Rays keep trading with the Mariners End findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Begin findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 Rays journal : Alex Colome says trade ‘ hard for me ’ but thanks club for all it did for him End findit /GlobalPaths/Templates/Objects/contentStatsItem2 More headlines End /GlobalPaths/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/special_mostread End Most Read Snippet Begin nativo ad script End nativo ad script Begin Gigya Comments Block Begin findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/social/gigya_comment_block temporarily use Facebook comments Begin FB Comments Block Comments End FB Comments Block End findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/social/gigya_comment_block End Gigya Comments Block Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlist1027 Start pagination Latest News Roundup Older Articles » End pagination Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Why the Rays keep trading with the Mariners SEATTLE — Seeing Alex Colome and Denard Span in Mariner home whites this weekend is the latest product of the relationship between the Rays and Mariners that seems to be one of the coziest in the game.Besides the cracks about a baseball bromanc ... Updated : 1 hour ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Rays journal : Alex Colome says trade ‘ hard for me ’ but thanks club for all it did for him SEATTLE — The shock of being traded by the Rays to the Mariners a week ago has finally worn off for RHP Alex Colome.The adjustment to a new team and , more importantly , a new role behind closer Edwin Diaz has gone well.So Friday , in his first co ... Updated : 2 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Still think NBA Finals reruns of Warriors-Cavs are boring ? A friend of mine once told me he was at Disney World once and he was riding the `` Carousel of Progress , '' only the ride broke , and he kept on going back to like 1890.Boy , this block of ice sure does keep food cold ! Well , the NBA 's ride is broken , too.RE ... Updated : 2 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Monday ’ s letters : A hat tip for good government May letter of the month The winning letter addressed the value of government.On average , government is goodA letter writer has declared that `` government doesn ’ t do anything well . '' This statement is demonstrably false . Sixty-one million Social Securit ... Updated : 3 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Seminole ’ s Brittany Lincicome to play in PGA Tour tournament BIRMINGHAM , Ala. — Brittany Lincicome is set to join an elite group : female pro golfers who have played in a PGA Tour event.The Seminole resident said Friday at the U.S. Women 's Open that she was asked to play in the Barbasol Championship at Ni ... Updated : 3 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 For starters : Rays at Mariners , with Romo opening UPDATE , 8:40 : Alex Colome said he expected to be traded by the Rays at some point but was surprised it was so early in the season , said he likes it in Seattle , and is okay with not being the closer . He joked that the Rays hitters will certainly know ... Updated : 3 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Florida jury leaves $ 4 to family of man killed by sheriff ’ s deputies For more than four years , questions swirled about the shooting death of Gregory Vaughn Hill Jr. at his home in Fort Pierce . After all , there were only three witnesses to how the entire episode unfolded : two St. Lucie County sheriff ’ s deputies and Hil ... Updated : 4 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Jeep plows into St. Petersburg home after collision with another vehicle St. Petersburg — A Jeep involved in a collision with another vehicle careened into the porch of a home Friday evening , police said.The woman driving the Jeep was taken to an unidentified hospital with unspecified injuries . The driver of the other veh ... Updated : 5 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 USF athletic director Mark Harlan headed to Utah A month after signing a contract extension with USF , athletic director Mark Harlan has been hired for the same job at Utah.Sources close to Harlan indicated Friday the Los Angeles native was headed back West , and Utah confirmed the news late Friday a ... Updated : 5 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Begin findit Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Hillsborough bus agency in talks to take over free Downtowner shuttle service TAMPA — The network of six-seat electric golf carts that gives free rides around downtown Tampa may be joining the transportation big leagues.Hillsborough Area Regional Transit is in talks with the Tampa Downtown Partnership to take over running the ... Updated : 5 hours ago End Global/templates/objects/contenlistitem1027 Start pagination Latest News Roundup Older Articles » End pagination End Global/templates/objects/contenlist1027 Begin Outbrain Ad Code - must be last ! Begin findit GlobalPaths/Templates/Macros/snippets/Outbrain/outbrainLogic End findit GlobalPaths/Templates/Macros/snippets/Outbrain/outbrainLogic End Outbrain Ad Code End HI/Templates/Objects/article51 Begin findit HI/Templates/Objects/article1337 GA : Custom dimensions End findit HI/Templates/Objects/article1337 End Global/Templates/Macros/articleContentLeft End content Begin findit /HI/Templates/Macros/articleContentRight Start rightrail Start Contact Box Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/defaultContactBox Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-x50.pbo End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-x50.pbo End advertisement End Global/Templates/Macros/defaultContactBox End Contact Box Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-left3.pbo DFP position name : TopMediumRectangle End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-left3.pbo End advertisement Start Content Box 1 Begin findit HI/templates/macros/defaultContentBox1 Profile Match Found - Always places weather widget News - Main ( Excluding Pasco & Hernando ) findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/seectionfrontboxes/newsletters/daystarter News newsletter Sign up for Daystarter Today 's top headlines delivered to your inbox Sign up for our other newsletters ( View our Privacy Policy ) END findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/seectionfrontboxes/newsletters/daystarter Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/news-widget News newsletter Sign up for News At Noon The latest headlines with your lunch Sign up for our other newsletters ( View our Privacy Policy ) End findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/news-widget /sponsored/ ( 1925 ) gets no weather widget or wx related objects /homes/ ( 2401 ) gets no weather widget asked by business for removal Pages that are weather related so they do n't get the weather widget Weather now always present in content box 1 unless we are on a radar page Begin findit /HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/weather/regional_radar_thumb Weather Center Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-weather-sponsor.pbo This ad position is blank on HI tampabay End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-weather-sponsor.pbo End advertisement TRANSPARENT GIF DIV STARTS HERE TRANSPARENT GIF DIV ENDS HERE RADAR PULLDOWNS Radar Images : Tampa Bay region Brandon Central Tampa South Tampa New Tampa Northwest Hillsborough South Shore North Pinellas South Pinellas Pasco Polk Manatee Sarasota Hernando/Citrus Heartland Tampa Bay area /RADAR PULLDOWNS Weather Alerts : Full-sized radar Current conditions 10-day Forecast Hurricane Guide End findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/weather/regional_radar_thumb End findit HI/templates/macros/defaultContentBox1 End Content Box 1 Begin Marketting Promo Begin findit /HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/right_rail_marketting_box End /HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/right_rail_marketting_box End Marketting Promo Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-bottom-right.pbo DFP position name : BottomMediumRectangle End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-bottom-right.pbo End advertisement Start Content Box 2 Begin findit HI/Templates/Macros/defaultContentBox2 Profile Match Found - No default News-Featured - Advertising Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/news-bios News Our Writers John Romano Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem1033 Romano : Is St. Pete frugal , or just a party pooper ? End findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem1033 Sue Carlton Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem1033 Carlton : Don ’ t Hillsborough County school board members have better things to do ? End findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem1033 Ernest Hooper Begin findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem1033 Missing Leggie ’ s Facebook connection End findit Global/Templates/Objects/newsItem1033 End Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/news-bios Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/featured-advertiser News - Wehaa Today ’ s Featured Advertisers End findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/featured-advertiser End HI/Templates/Macros/defaultContentBox2 End Content Box 2 Start Mugshots Begin findit /HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/mugshots TRANSPARENT GIF DIV STARTS HERE TRANSPARENT GIF DIV ENDS HERE MugShots Mark 1 End findit /HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/mugshots End Mugshots Start Content Box 3 Begin findit HI/templates/macros/defaultContentBox3 Profile Match Found - No default Blogs - Gradebook End findit HI/templates/macros/defaultContentBox3 End Content Box 3 Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-x03.pbo DFP position name : AdditionalMediumRectangle End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-x03.pbo End advertisement Start Content Box 4 Begin findit HI/templates/macros/defaultContentBox4 Profile Match Found - No default News Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/news-about-us News about us About the News section The News Roundup section provides breaking news updates from Tampa Bay and throughout the nation and world . End findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/sectionfrontboxes/news/news-about-us End findit HI/templates/macros/defaultContentBox4 End Content Box 4 Start Google Text Ads Widget Begin findit Global/Templates/Macros/snippets/promo_box/googletext_widget End Google Text Ads Widget End rightrail End /HI/Templates/Macros/articleContentRight Begin findit HI/templates/macros/defaultFooter CONTENT CONTAINER ENDS HERE FOOTER STARTS FOOTER BANNER CONTAINER STARTS HERE Start advertisement begin findit \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-bottom.pbo DFP position name : BottomLeaderboard End \HI\templates\macros\snippets\google\dfp_ad_includes\ad-bottom.pbo End advertisement FOOTER BANNER CONTAINER ENDS HERE FOOTER CONTAINER STARTS HERE FOOTER CONTENT CONTAINER STARTS HERE COLUMN ONE STARTS HERE Search This is going to be replaced by proquest soon x Archives Site Map Index of site pages Archives Click here to search the Archives COLUMN ONE ENDS HERE COLUMN TWO STARTS HERE Subscribe Subscribe Renew Customer Service E-Newspaper Subscribe Subscriber sign-in COLUMN TWO ENDS HERE COLUMN THREE STARTS HERE Contact Us Directory Email Customer Service Call Customer Service : 1-800-888-7012 Email NewsLetters Sign Up COLUMN THREE ENDS HERE COLUMN FOUR STARTS HERE Advertise With Us Place an ad Market Info Media Kit Find Cars on AutoTrader.com Join Us About Us Times Jobs Internships Deliver the paper COLUMN FOUR ENDS HERE COLUMN FIVE STARTS HERE Times-Sponsored Events Click here for a directory of all Times consumer shows Tampa Bay Times Fund Inc . Grants Scholarships Times Brand Merchandise Photo reprints and licensing Article reprints and licensing Photo Reprints FAQ COLUMN FIVE ENDS HERE BOTTOM NAV CONTAINER STARTS HERE Home News Politics Sports Things To Do Video Opinion Classifieds Cars Jobs Homes Legal Ads BOTTOM NAV CONTAINER ENDS HERE FOOTER CONTENT CONTAINER ENDS HERE FOOTER CONTAINER ENDS HERE LEGAL BAR CONTAINER STARTS HERE © 2018 All Rights Reserved Tampa Bay Times 490 First Avenue South St. Petersburg , FL 33701 727-893-8111 Contact Us Privacy Policy Standard of Accuracy Terms , Conditions & Copyright FOOTER ENDS container ends Begin Mezobit detection tag end Mezobit detection tag Start GumGum Ad call Begin findit HI/templates/macros/snippets/gumgum/gumgum_ad_photo . End findit HI/templates/macros/snippets/gumgum/gumgum_ad_photo End GumGum Ad call Begin Findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/analytics/chartbeat Chartbeat Analytics End Chartbeat Analytics End Findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/analytics/chartbeat Begin Findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/analytics/mather End Findit HI/Templates/Macros/snippets/analytics/mather End findit HI/templates/macros/defaultFooter [ w1329 ] __ __ _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ |__ ( _ ) _ __ ( _ ) _ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _ ` '__/ _ \ ' _ \| '__| ' _ \ / _ ` \ V V / __/ ( _| __/ ( _| \_/\_/ \___| \__ , _|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__ , |___/ Ever thought about joining us ? https : //workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - Rise of digital politics : why UK parties spend big on Facebook Technology The Guardian Skip to main content US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs US World Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness More Rise of digital politics : why UK parties spend big on Facebook Fri 23 Mar 2018 Last modified on Sat 24 Mar 2018 Jeremy Corbyn , the Labour leader , with supporters on the 2017 general election campaign trail . Photograph : Neil Hall/Reuters igures released this week by the Electoral Commission are the simplest way to demonstrate the growing influence of Facebook on British politics . Political parties nationally spent about £1.3m on Facebook during the 2015 general election campaign ; two years later the figure soared to £3.2m . In each election it was the Conservatives that spent the most , with decidedly mixed results . For David Cameron ’ s successful re-election in 2015 , the party spent £1.2m ; that rose to £2.1m in 2017 , but it was far less help to Theresa May . Sam Jeffers , the co-founder of Who Targets Me , a body that tries to monitor political Facebook advertising , says the difference stems from the fact that the Conservatives had a better overall strategy in 2015 . “ In 2015 they targeted Lib Dem seats in the south-west ; in 2017 they targeted Labour seats in London boroughs , spending money on seats they thought they would win but didn ’ t , ” he says . Nevertheless , the Conservative success was so striking in 2015 that every other political party and campaign group felt it had to follow suit . The Guardian view on regulating Facebook : the time has come Editorial Read more The idea of marketing on Facebook was brought to the UK by the US political consultant Jim Messina , the campaign manager for Barack Obama in 2012 , who Tory officials like to say boasted he had “ 1,000 pieces of data on every voter in the UK ” . It was a big change on the traditional model of supplementing canvass returns with broad demographic data supplied by Experian ’ s Mosaic , which divides people into groups such as “ metro high flyers ” , “ classic grandparents ” and “ disconnected youth ” – the kind of data used by all the main parties to help deliver targeted mailshots . The idea rapidly took hold – and was arguably tailor-made for the EU referendum in 2016 . One of the reasons why the Conservatives made heavy use of Facebook marketing was because its canvassing operation is far weaker than Labour ’ s , forcing it to try to identify potential voters using technology . The temporary campaigns on both sides of the EU referendum debate had no voting history or canvass data they could rely on , making media and marketing messages even more crucial . Vote Leave , the Boris Johnson-fronted campaign , spent 40 % of its total budget , or £2.7m , on the services of AggregateIQ , a little-known digital marketing firm based in British Columbia , Canada . On Friday , in the aftermath of the Cambridge Analytica affair , Dominic Cummings , the campaign director for Vote Leave , downplayed the role of digital marketing in a lengthy blogpost : “ It is hard to change people ’ s minds . We are evolved creatures . If we were all dopey dupes we wouldn ’ t be here , our ancestors would have all been killed. ” Cummings blamed Arron Banks from the Leave.EU campaign , whose operation had a brief association with Cambridge Analytica at the end of 2015 . Banks has said that Cambridge Analytica did no work for his group , partly because its offer was contingent on Leave.EU winning the designation to be the official leave campaign and so gaining official access to the UK electoral database , which did not happen . But at the time , Cummings said Banks spread “ bullshit about building a ‘ digital army ’ ” among “ a powerful network of MPs , donors , peers and assorted ‘ campaigners ’ ” , who in turn argued Banks should be allowed to control the digital aspects of Vote Leave ’ s campaign . Cambridge Analytica scandal : the biggest revelations so far Read more Labour , too , wanted to revamp its own campaigning . The party was badly bruised by the 2015 loss , and with Jeremy Corbyn it had a 2017 candidate that supporters were eager to back online . The party revamped its Contact Creator software to allow it to target named voters identified by its canvassing via Facebook – and encouraged constituency candidates to do so locally as well . The party spent £577,000 nationally on Facebook for the 2017 election , according to Electoral Commission figures , while its candidates in seats spent up to £1,000 each . But the party ’ s agents say that although they would definitely spend on Facebook in the future , they could not be sure how effective their Facebook efforts were . “ Some young people brought it up on the doorstep , ” one experienced agent says . “ But all the data we could see is how many people clicked on our ads. ” The spending continues unabated . The Conservative party in the London borough of Wandsworth has released a short video aimed at residents in the run-up to May ’ s local elections , arguing that Wandsworth council , run by the party , “ has the lowest average council tax in the country ” . A video encouraging people to join the leftwing organisation Momentum begins by singling out the Tory MP Iain Duncan Smith , saying he is “ terrified of our unseat campaign ” because he only has a majority of 2,500 . Tom Baldwin , a former communications director of the Labour party under Ed Miliband , who is writing a book on media and politics called Ctrl Alt Del , summarises the role of digital marketing in the last two elections as follows : “ In 2015 , Labour lost for all sorts of reasons : voter perceptions of Ed Miliband , views on economic competence , Scotland . But also the Tories understood it was possible to reach people very effectively at very low cost through Facebook . By 2017 , Labour had caught up . “ They spent big on Facebook themselves while having a candidate and a campaign that people were willing to share content from across social media like never before in a UK election . It wasn ’ t the only reason why Theresa May did so badly – she was a bad candidate , running a bad campaign – but it made a difference. ” Facebook Cambridge Analytica Local elections Local politics Conservatives Labour features Facebook CEO exploited ability to access data from any user ’ s friend network , US case claims Zuckerberg set up fraudulent scheme to 'weaponise ' data , court case alleges Company gathered data from texts and photos of users and their friends , court case claims Facebook accused of conducting mass surveillance through its apps Dominic Cummings says move would prove campaign did not use data gathered improperly by Cambridge Analytica Publish all Vote Leave 's data , campaign chief challenges Facebook Political consultancy , under fire over use of millions of Facebook users ’ data , has begun insolvency proceedings Cambridge Analytica closing after Facebook data harvesting scandal The six weeks that brought Cambridge Analytica down What does Cambridge Analytica closing mean for the Facebook data scandal ? We met Cambridge Analytica but did n't use them – Business Council of Australia MPs threaten Mark Zuckerberg with summons over Facebook data Most viewed US World Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies . All rights reserved . [ w1330 ] –– 0000000 000 0000000 111111111 11111111100 000 111111111 00000 111111111111111111 00000 000000 000 1111111111111111111111111100000 000 000 1111 1111111111111111100 000 000 11 0 1111111100 000 000 1 00 1 000 000 00 00 1 000 000 000 00000 1 000 00000 0000 00000000 1 00000 11111 000 00 000000 000 11111 00000 0000 000000 00000 00000 000 10000 000000 000 0000 000 00000 000000 1 000 000 000000 10000 1 0 000 000 1000000 00 1 00 000 000 1111111 1 0000 000 000 1111111100 000000 000 0000 111111111111111110000000 0000 111111111 111111111111100000 111111111 0000000 00000000 0000000 NYTimes.com : All the code that 's fit to printf ( ) We 're hiring : https : //nytimes.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/Tech Elon Musk Joins # DeleteFacebook With a Barrage of Tweets - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index Technology Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by By March 23 , 2018 Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg have clashed on artificial intelligence , space travel and the direction of technology . On Friday , Mr. Musk showed just how little love lost there was between the two tech titans . Mr. Musk , the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla , deleted the Facebook pages of both of his companies . In doing so , he joined a growing chorus of tech leaders calling for people to abandon Mr. Zuckerberg ’ s social network after it allowed a political consulting firm , Cambridge Analytica , to obtain and misuse data on 50 million users . The revelations have plunged Facebook into its worst public relations crisis in years . As with most news in 2018 , Mr. Musk ’ s decision started with a barrage of tweets . The tech luminary began by criticizing Sonos , a maker of wireless speakers , which had pulled some ads from Facebook for a week . “ Wow , a whole week . Risky ... , ” Mr. Musk tweeted in response to a news article about Sonos ’ s move . A minute later , he replied to Brian Acton , the founder of WhatsApp , which Facebook had acquired for $ 19 billion several years ago . Mr. Acton , who has since left Facebook , had on Wednesday called for people to “ # deletefacebook. ” “ What ’ s Facebook ? ” Mr. Musk replied to Mr. Acton . Then Mr. Musk announced he would shut down the SpaceX and Tesla pages . He said the Tesla Facebook page “ looks lame anyway . ” The posts , which sent the Twittersphere into a virtual frenzy , escalated a public feud between Mr. Musk and Mr. Zuckerberg . Mr. Musk has often urged people to be cautious of embracing technology such as artificial intelligence because of the consequences it might bring , once saying that it could become so powerful it would start wars and turn people into its “ house cats . ” Mr. Zuckerberg has argued that people need to trust and embrace technology in their lives . When the Facebook chief executive was asked about Mr. Musk ’ s warnings around artificial intelligence during a Facebook Live broadcast in 2017 , he called Mr. Musk a “ naysayer. ” That ’ s an insult in a technology world that celebrates perpetual optimism . “ With A.I . especially , I ’ m really optimistic , ” Mr. Zuckerberg said . “ People who are naysayers and kind of try to drum up these doomsday scenarios — I just , I don ’ t understand it . I think it ’ s really negative and in some ways I actually think it is pretty irresponsible. ” In response , Mr. Musk shot back that Mr. Zuckerberg did not fully comprehend the issues . “ I ’ ve talked to Mark about this , ” Mr. Musk wrote . “ His understanding of the subject is limited. ” The two have also clashed on space travel . Mr. Zuckerberg traveled to Kenya in 2016 for the launch of a Facebook-affiliated satellite called Amos-6 , which was set to go to outer space in a SpaceX rocket . But the rocket exploded . Mr. Zuckerberg released a chilly statement . “ As I ’ m here in Africa , I ’ m deeply disappointed to hear that SpaceX ’ s launch failure destroyed our satellite that would have provided connectivity to so many entrepreneurs and everyone else across the continent , ” he wrote on Facebook . Mr. Musk is a frequent Twitter presence , who has posted increasingly macho and humor-focused messages including video of himself playing with a flamethrower . He said he plans to keep using his Instagram account , which is owned by Facebook , and on which he has 6.9 million followers . When one reporter said on Twitter that it was remarkable Mr. Musk had so much time to troll online , Mr. Musk wrote , “ What , a troll , me ! ? ” Facebook and SpaceX didn ’ t immediately have a comment on Mr. Musk ’ s deleted pages . A Tesla spokeswoman did not have a comment beyond Mr. Musk ’ s tweets . Follow Nellie Bowles on Twitter : @ NellieBowles . A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B 2 of the New York edition with the headline : Musk , Escalating Feud , Backs # DeleteFacebook By Pulling Companies Related Coverage Mark Zuckerberg ’ s Reckoning : ‘ This Is a Major Trust Issue ’ March 21 , 2018 For Many Facebook Users , a ‘ Last Straw ’ That Led Them to Quit March 21 , 2018 SpaceX ’ s Explosion Reverberates Across Space , Satellite and Telecom Industries Sept. 4 , 2016 Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today 's paper corrections corrections opinion today 's opinion today 's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video : opinion arts today 's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video : arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C . events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today 's paper corrections corrections opinion today 's opinion today 's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video : opinion arts today 's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video : arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C . events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS [ w1331 ] Wall Street thinks the worst of the Cambridge Analytica scandal may be over for Facebook . Skip to the content Notable topics North Korea Summit Jobs Numbers NBA Finals Dinesh D'Souza New Kanye Album News Quiz Podcasts Slate Plus Slate homepage Submit search Enter query Sign In My Account ▾ Settings Log out News & Politics Culture Technology Business Human Interest Slate homepage Open menu Close menu Notable topics North Korea Summit Jobs Numbers NBA Finals Dinesh D'Souza New Kanye Album News Quiz News & Politics Culture Technology Business Human Interest Podcasts Slate Plus Search Follow us Slate on Instagram Slate on Twitter Slate on Facebook Register Sign in Settings Log out * So Brazen It ’ s Almost Admirable Follow Us Slate on Instagram Slate on Twitter Slate on Facebook The Industry Is the Worst of the Cambridge Analytica Scandal Over for Facebook ? By Wall Street analysts don ’ t think people will be deleting Facebook for very long . Kirill Kudryavtsev/Getty Images If the past week of news cycles has convinced you that Facebook is barely surviving the onslaught of the Cambridge Analytica scandal , cry not for the social network . It ’ s true that all the bad news has sent the company ’ s stock spiraling downward all week . On Monday , two days after the stunning stories in the Guardian and the New York Times that detailed how the data-consulting firm Cambridge Analytica was able to obtain data on millions of Facebook users were published , the company ’ s stock fell by 6.77 percent . Facebook ’ s market cap fell by more than $ 36 billion . As the week continued , the hashtag # DeleteFacebook captured the ire of users upset by the company ’ s ad-targeting practices and overbroad data collection . By Friday , even serial entrepreneur Elon Musk joined the deserters , deleting the Facebook pages of both Tesla and SpaceX . All of which means…buy ? Now , according to Wall Street analysts , is a perfect time to pick up more Facebook stock . They ’ re telling their clients that all this bad news will eventually blow over and advising them to buy low . As the controversy begins to recede from the headlines after CEO Mark Zuckerberg ’ s interview blitz on Wednesday , they probably have a point . “ The firestorm of news headlines , and Facebook ’ s poor navigation of those , have driven an increase in uncertainty that has far surpassed the risk to Facebook ’ s cash flow growth , in our view , ” analyst Andy Hargreaves of KeyBanc Capital Markets wrote in a note to clients Tuesday , according to CNBC . “ We recommend investors buy Facebook at current levels and see potential catalysts in earnings , a reasonable response from the Company , and the passage of the height of negative headline volume. ” And more : “ Despite these negative headlines and increased concerns around user data and regulatory risk , we do not believe Facebook ’ s business is currently being impacted , ” JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth said in a note to clients , reported Investor ’ s Business Daily on Tuesday . By Friday , two days after Zuckerberg ’ s interviews in Wired , CNN , the New York Times , and Recode—where he apologized and said that he ’ d be open to some form of regulation ( without going into a great deal of specifics ) —Facebook had jumped from the 12 th ranking in Apple ’ s App Store at the end of last week to the 8 th , according to a BuzzFeed report on Friday . While public scrutiny of the major internet companies has grown steadily over the past two years , it ’ s unclear whether this past week ’ s revelations will leave an indelible mark in anyone ’ s memory—or more importantly , lead to more regulations of or substantive new policies at Facebook . Then again , the news may have slowed , but it hasn ’ t stopped : On Friday evening , British government officials raided the London headquarters of Cambridge Analytica . You can bet Facebook executives will be paying as close attention as anyone to what the U.K. investigators find . Read more from Slate on Cambridge Analytica . Cambridge Analytica Facebook April Glaser is a Slate technology writer and co-hosts the podcast If Then . Most Recent View all 5h ago Jamelle Bouie The Pardon of Dinesh D ’ Souza Shows How Far the Racist Fringe Has Risen Under Donald Trump 6h ago Mark Joseph Stern New Hampshire Police Charged and Arrested a Man for Criticizing Them on the Internet 6h ago Ben Mathis-Lilley Yet Another Report Indicates That the Trump White House Worked Closely With a Twice-Convicted Pedophile 6h ago Jed Shugerman How Trump ’ s Dinesh D ’ Souza Pardon Should Backfire 6h ago Keith Phipps It ’ s the Perfect Time for Sci-Fi Movies That Put Ideas Before Effects 7h ago Christina Cauterucci Florida Congressman Is Hosting a Women ’ s Summit With Classes on Weight Loss and Gardening 7h ago Rebecca Onion Samantha Bee , Kanye ’ s Album , and Little League Dads 8h ago Ben Mathis-Lilley The North Korea Summit Is Back On ! What a Fun Roller Coaster This Is , With the Stakes Being Our Potential Nuclear Annihilation 9h ago April Glaser Facebook Is Finally Ditching Its Trending Section 10h ago Ben Mathis-Lilley Coal Barons Who Donated $ 1 Million to Trump ’ s Increasingly Suspicious Inauguration Fund May Get Huge Favor 10h ago Christina Cauterucci Trump Adds Another Anti-Science , Anti-Choice Woman to Oversee Critical Health Programs 10h ago Marissa Martinelli , June Thomas , Veralyn Williams , and Lena Wilson Does 13 Reasons Why ’ s Second Season Try to Revise Too Much of the First ? Most Read Justin Trudeau Says There Was Almost a NAFTA Deal . Then Mike Pence Called Him With an Insane Demand . Jordan Weissmann Teens Are Abandoning Facebook . For Real This Time . Will Oremus Our Son Will Never Meet His Racist Grandmother . Can We Tell Him She ’ s Dead ? Nicole Cliffe The Most Unfortunate Thing About Sam Bee ’ s Self-Defeating Slur Sam Adams Gregory Hill Was Shot to Death by Cops . Why Did a Jury Decide His Life Was Worth $ 4 ? Daniel Engber Trump Just Did the One Thing He ’ s Not Supposed to Do With the Jobs Numbers Jordan Weissmann Reprints Advertise : Site / Podcasts FAQ Contact / Feedback Corrections About us Work with us User agreement Privacy policy AdChoices Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram The Slate Group logo Slate is published by The Slate Group , a Graham Holdings Company . All contents © 2018 The Slate Group LLC . All rights reserved . We Need to Talk About Your Ad Blocker Slate relies on advertising to support our journalism . If you value our work , please disable your ad blocker . Enable Ads on Slate Want to Block Ads But Still Support Slate ? By joining Slate Plus you support our work and get exclusive content . And you 'll never see this message again . Join Slate Plus [ w1332 ] prefetch preload resource LEADERBOARD Home Video Photos Celebs Movies Music TV Style Home Video Photos Celebs Movies Music TV Style TRENDING NOW Roseanne Rufus Wainwright Allison Mack Nikki & John Kanye West Royal Wedding Leo The Cat Royals Elon Musk Deletes Facebook Pages Of Tesla , SpaceX After Data Scandal title By . Author byine 23 Mar 2018 3:14 PM Published Social share buttons story content Verified Facebook pages of Elon Musk ’ s rocket company SpaceX and electric carmaker Tesla Inc disappeared on Friday , minutes after the Silicon Valley billionaire promised on Twitter to take down the pages when challenged by users . “ Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you ’ re the man ? ” a user tweeted to Tesla Chief Executive Musk . His response : “ I didn ’ t realize there was one . Will do. ” WATCH : How did Facebook respond to the data breach ? Facebook pages of SpaceX and Tesla , which had millions of followers , are no longer accessible . Musk had begun the exchange by responding to a tweet from WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on the # deletefacebook tag . What ’ s Facebook ? — Elon Musk ( @ elonmusk ) March 23 , 2018 The hashtag gained prominence after the world ’ s largest social network upset users by mishandling data , which ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica – a political consultancy that worked on U.S. President Donald Trump ’ s 2016 election campaign . “ What ’ s Facebook ? ” Musk tweeted . Many users also urged the billionaire to delete the profiles of his companies on Facebook ’ s photo-sharing app Instagram . “ Instagram ’ s probably ok … so long as it stays fairly independent , ” Musk responded . READ MORE : Robert Mueller examining ties between Trump campaign , Cambridge Analytica “ I don ’ t use FB & never have , so don ’ t think I ’ m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow . Also , we don ’ t advertise or pay for endorsements , so … don ’ t care. ” Musk has had run-ins with Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg in the past . Last year , a war of words broke out between Musk and Zuckerberg over whether robots will become smart enough to kill their human creators . READ MORE : Zuckerberg apologizes for Facebook data scandal , suggests it may be time to regulate internet When Zuckerberg was asked about Musk ’ s views on the dangers of robots , he chided “ naysayers ” whose “ doomsday scenarios ” were “ irresponsible. ” In response , Musk tweeted : “ His understanding of the subject is limited. ” story ad article tags article related Related Harvey Weinstein Again Accused Of Rape In New Class-Action Lawsuit Khloe Kardashian Listens To ‘ Delicate ’ By Kim Kardashian ’ s Rival Taylor Swift Damon Wayans Shares Bloody Video From ‘ Lethal Weapon ’ Set That Sheds Light On Clayne Crawford ’ s Firing pinterest footer code for pinit buttons OUTBRAIN RELATED CONTENT COMMENTS Comments END : stream Microsites Most Stories 1 Prince Harry And Meghan Markle Will Be Returning $ 12 Million Worth Of Wedding Gifts : Here ’ s Why 2 Report : ABC Considering ‘ Roseanne ’ Reboot Focused On Sara Gilbert ’ s Character , John Goodman ‘ Very Interested ’ 3 Joe Rogan Confirms Roseanne Barr Has Cancelled Friday Appearance On His Podcast : ‘ She ’ s Not Doing Well ’ 4 Kelly Ripa Pressures Anderson Cooper Into Getting A Tattoo For His 51st Birthday 5 Longtime Host Kevin Frankish Exiting Toronto ’ s ‘ Breakfast Television ’ : ‘ This Has Been My Life For So Many Years ’ Latest Kanye West Listening Party Inside Out Film Festival In Toronto Claire Danes , Jim Parsons Talk ‘ A Kid Like Jake ’ Nick Offerman Learns To Shred For ‘ Hearts Beat Loud ’ Portugal The Man In Studio END : column-wrapper END : layout-wrapper Wallpaper Ad Call WEEKNIGHTS 7:30 ET Home Video Photos Celebs Movies Music TV Style About Us Privacy Policy Copyright Corus Entertainment Advertise Terms of Use Advertising Standard Terms Notifications Corus Television Corus Entertainment Inc. , 2018 All rights reserved . wpcom_wp_footer Trigger Krux tracking call . END Krux Tracking call [ w1333 ] PUBLIC `` -//W3C//DTD XHTML+RDFa 1.0//EN '' `` http : //www.w3.org/MarkUp/DTD/x-rdfa-1.dtd '' EDITORIAL : Regulate social media The Chronicle Herald Video Player Code START ACUITY SECURE JAVASCRIPT PIXEL CODE START SECURE JAVASCRIPT PIXEL CODE END END ACUITY [ if gte IE 6 ] endif ] [ if IE 6 endif ] Pingdom Monitoring Code Pressboard Code RecaptchaV2 Today 's E-Paper Weekly Flyers Obituaries Contests Pay Account Mobile Digital Magazines Announcements Contact Us /.menu-top-menu Follow us on / # top-menu-social-icons / # top-menu-update-status AddThis Button BEGIN / # top-menu-right / # top-menu / # weather-widget / # login-area Press enter to search / # search_box / # search_box_wrapper /.clear / # header /.outer-top / # logo / # leaderboard / # logo-area Home News Weather Opinions Business Sports Lifestyles Wheels Homes Community Careers More More Home Forest Lakes Business Voice Connect . Collaborate . Prosper . Craft Beer Connections Duggers Family Matters Food & Drink Killam Community Spaces Thriving 50+ Connect With Cannabis / # nav /.divider Home » Opinions » Editorials » EDITORIAL : Regulate social media /.clear EDITORIAL : Regulate social media /.article-header-title /.article-header-author /.article-header /.spacer / # op-over-content Facebook JS SDK for comments /.article-addthis-button Comments /.article-comments /.article-fivestar /.article-email-button /.article-print-button /.article-links /.article-links-wrapper /.deck A cell phone user thumbs through the privacy settings on a Facebook account . ( SEAN KILPATRICK / CP ) /.main-image-desc /.main-image /.clearfix Social media dominates modern life . So , why isn ’ t it regulated ? We all know how big a role social media plays in people ’ s lives . Billions of us consider Google , Facebook and Twitter , to name three of the biggest social media platforms , as integral parts of our day-to-day lives . No other industry with that much influence is essentially left to its own devices to do what ’ s right , even if it ’ s not profitable . The negative consequences of the status quo have been all over the news this past week . Until 2015 , Facebook had allowed third-party app developers to easily extract personal data from both app users and their online friends . Before that policy was changed , a Cambridge University researcher , using an app , obtained the personal data of more than 50 million Americans , later improperly providing it to Cambridge Analytica . The latter company planned to use the data for commercial and political purposes . Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says that when his firm found out in 2015 , it asked Cambridge Analytica , which later did work for the Donald Trump presidential campaign , to destroy the data . But no one checked . And Facebook never told millions of its users their personal data had been improperly obtained . Cambridge Analytica suspended CEO Alexander Nix after he reportedly bragged that his firm played a decisive role in helping get Trump elected in 2016 . Trump campaign officials and others dispute those claims . Regardless of what occurred , there was clearly the potential for detailed personal data about millions of American voters to be misused during an election campaign . People recognize clearly-labelled campaign ads as partisan attempts at persuasion . The concern is that the Facebook data could be used to try to sway voters surreptiously by sharing information — whether fake news or accurate reports that nonetheless reflect a certain narrative — that ’ s been designed to influence whom they support politically . Facebook and the other social media giants want to be left to self-regulate to stop such activity . But critics rightly note the evidence suggests these companies have paid more attention to profit than their users ’ privacy . Regulators would also be better equipped to handle dealing with the complexities of data protection , compared to the vast majority of people on social media who don ’ t even attempt to read the mountains of fine print concerning terms of use provided by Facebook , Google and others . The case for regulation of the social media giants involves not only enforcing reasonable privacy rules regarding the use of information they gather and profit from ; there is a need as well to guard against a threat to democracy if misuse of that information is left unchecked . /.article-body / # article-body-content Report a Typo or Error /.article-addthis-button /.article-comments /.article-fivestar /.article-email-button /.article-print-button /.article-links /.article-links-wrapper # op-under-content / # center [ if IE 7 [ w1334 ] Cambridge Analytica has blurred the line between persuasion and manipulation CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player 's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Opinion news Cambridge Analytica has blurred the line between persuasion and manipulation For some , the difference between persuasion and manipulation lies in outcome . A person is manipulated if he or she feels shortchanged , whereas persuasion suggests a mutually beneficial resolution . Who decides and determines this , though ? And what if the target audience has no idea such efforts are taking place ? The company identified the psychographics of individuals to create deliberately provocative messaging for CBC News Posted : Mar 23 , 2018 4:00 AM ET Last Updated : March 23 Alicia Wanless Alicia Wanless is the Director of Strategic Communications at The SecDev Foundation . Alicia develops campaigns and strategies for engaging beneficiaries in outreach and behavioural change , and she has developed a training program that deals with verifying information and the spread of content online . CBC 's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO pending probe in Facebook data scandal We give too much personal info to political parties , Élections Québec tells government British PM backs investigation into Cambridge Analytica 's Facebook data use Find more popular stories To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations , first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada 's online communities ( except in children and youth-oriented communities ) . Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted . By submitting a comment , you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part , in any manner CBC chooses . Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments . Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines . Comments are welcome while open . We reserve the right to close comments at any time . More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations , CBC P.O . Box 500 Station A Toronto , ON Canada , M5W 1E6 Toll-free ( Canada only ) : 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer : 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual , hearing , motor and cognitive challenges . Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada . All rights reserved . [ w1335 ] END Krux Controltag [ if IE 7 ] endif ] [ IF IE endif ] [ if IE 7 endif ] [ if lt IE 9 [ w1336 ] Open graph meta Search enginge validation Press Progress : Andrew Scheer 's campaign manager says he builds creepy psychological profiles of voters too Georgia Straight Vancouver 's News & Entertainment Weekly [ if gte IE 9 ] endif ] Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Today » 15°C Sat 20°C Sun 15°C Mon 17°C EVENTS GUIDES LOG IN GOLDEN PLATES NEWS LIFE FOOD MUSIC CANNABIS ARTS TECH MOVIES CONFESSIONS BEST OF VANCOUVER I SAW YOU CONTESTS CLASSIFIEDS PERSONALS 18+ MORE I SAW YOU CONTESTS CLASSIFIEDS PERSONALS 18+ News Topics All News Commentary Straight Talk News Features Elections Real Estate Sports Letters Politics Commentary Press Progress : Andrew Scheer 's campaign manager says he builds creepy psychological profiles of voters too Hamish Marshall says he ’ s a `` huge fan '' of using of psychological data to target voters , but cautions it ’ s `` not for the faint of heart '' on at By PressProgress Hamish Marshall , Conservative leader Andrew Scheer ’ s campaign manager for the 2019 election , says he ’ s a “ huge fan ” of building detailed psychological profiles of Canadian voters and targeting them with personalized political messages . Big data and politics took an unsurprisingly dystopian turn this week after a series of bombshell revelations about Cambridge Analytica —a data analytics firm once run by Steve Bannon and bankrolled by reclusive billionaire Robert Mercer that claims it used “ psychographic data ” to engineer Brexit and the election of Donald Trump . According to the Guardian , Cambridge Analytica scraped Facebook data from over 200 million people to create “ sophisticated psychological and political profiles and then target them with political ads designed to work on their particular psychological makeup. ” The whistleblower at the centre of the Cambridge Analytica revelations calls it “ Steve Bannon ’ s psychological warfare mindf–k tool. ” The Guardian Many ordinary Canadians are likely unaware that similar techniques are already being used to wage “ psychological warfare ” in Canadian politics too . Last year , at the Manning Centre ’ s Alberta Networking Conference in Red Deer , Hamish Marshall —a backroom conservative strategist who founded the alt-right Rebel Media website and ran Andrew Scheer ’ s Conservative leadership campaign —told conservative activists they need to focus on the “ emotions ” of individual voters if they ever hope to win again . “ We all think a lot about technology , but a lot of what we have to deal with , frankly , is human psychology , ” Marshall explained during a panel on “ Modern Campaigning ” . Moderator Jeromy Farkas , a Calgary city councillor , later asked Marshall to share his thoughts on “ data-driven psychometrics in designing the message and the medium ” . “ I ’ m a huge fan of it , ” Marshall said . Psychometrics ( or psychographics ) is mainly interested in measuring psychological traits and predicting behaviours , usually by combining enormous amounts of data or even analyzing the digital footprints of Internet users . Recounting how he and pollster Dimitri Pantazopoulos , a fellow panelist , collected troves of data to build psychological profiles on Canadian voters to “ help the Harper government craft the things that helped them win in 2008 , ” Marshall said he finds it “ extremely useful ” . “ Combining psychographic information , demographics about someone ’ s psychology is extraordinarily useful ” —although Marshall cautioned : “ it ’ s not for the faint of heart. ” As one example of how deep Conservatives are drilling into the psyches of voters to personalize political messages , Marshall said he even tracks the “ self-confidence ” levels of Canadian voters . Video of Hamish Marshall : I 'm a `` huge fan '' of psychological warfare Until recently , Marshall was the president of Torch Agency , a firm that combines public opinion research and political communications . The agency ’ s website advertises its specialization in “ psychographic analysis ” and “ advanced targeting ” . “ We specialize in building custom psychographic profiles of the customers , voters and audiences you need to reach , ” promising the agency can “ find out what they think , what they care about and how you can communicate with them on issues that matter ” . The website gives no indication how it obtains reliable data to provide “ custom psychographic profiles ” to clients . The website does indicate several past clients are major Canadian political parties , including the federal Conservative Party of Canada , the Ontario PCs , the Manitoba PCs , and the Saskatchewan Party . The nature of the work Torch Agency provided is not disclosed . Marshall has also counted both Jason Kenney and Alberta ’ s United Conservative party caucus as clients too . Not unlike Steve Bannon , Marshall ’ s love for data found synergy with his role as director of an alt-right media outlet , Canada ’ s Breitbart knock-off : Rebel Media Marshall told Maclean ’ s he was only “ involved in helping them with technological and web aspects of the business ” , but in actuality , he played a central role harvesting data from Rebel Media viewers and managing their database . In fact , Marshall even worked out of an office at Rebel Media ’ s Toronto studio . In October , Marshall announced he was leaving Rebel Media and then in January , Torch Agency merged with another communications firm and teamed up with Terrance Oakey , former president of the anti-union lobby group Merit Canada , to create a new entity called “ ONE Persuades ” . Following revelations about Cambridge Analytica ’ s use of psychographic data , faculty and students at the University of Cambridge ’ s Psychometrics Centre released a statement distancing research in their field from the “ alleged use of psychographics , microtargeting and fake news networks by political campaigns ” . The statement calls for greater attention to “ privacy ” and “ ethics ” in the field of psychographics , suggesting use of “ psychological prediction tools ” should be more transparent , provide a clear benefit to the public and emphasizes that “ nobody should have predictions made about them without their prior consent. ” More This article originally appeared on the PressProgress website . It 's an independent , nonprofit newsroom launched by the Broadbent Institute in 2013 . The Broadbent Institute is named after former NDP leader Ed Broadbent . RELATED STORIES Who 's mining your data in the transit and transportation plebiscite ? Data mining 101 : B.C . political parties harvest personal information to advance electoral prospects Facebook under investigation after explosive allegations about Cambridge Analytica Former Vancouver resident Christopher Wylie at centre of international uproar over Facebook data mining BBC reports that back in 2009 , Mark Zuckerberg promised not to sell data collected on Facebook users Join the discussion Comments More on straight.com POPULAR Your horoscope for May 31 to June 6 , 2018 Guardian column suggests Trudeau bought Kinder Morgan pipeline to avoid trade complaint from China Broadway subway may significantly alter Vancouver 's urban fabric North America 's biggest all-you-can-eat Indian buffet set to open in Metro Vancouver Patti Bacchus : The rich are revolting over the school surtax Surrey RCMP warns of serial rapist in Newton area who may drive a Honda Accord Two men went missing from Ucluelet on same day as third man vanished on Vancouver Island Savage Love : Living the bi lie NOFX does something for the first time in history as backlash over Vegas shooting joke continues to grow Vancouver midwifery collective cares for nonbinary and trans clients SHOW MORE Hold the Moment The Georgia Straight : A 50th Anniversary Celebration Book This beautifully produced coffee-table book brings together over 100 of Georgia Straight 's iconic covers , along with short essays , insider details and contributor reflections , putting each of these issues of the publication into its historical context . BUY NOW READ LIKE A LOCAL STRAIGHT NEWSLETTER Get the latests events and news updates the News : Weekly top stories the List : Contests , events and prebuys Consent for CASL ( Canadian Anti-Spam Law ) I agree to be contacted by the Georgia Straight . I may unsubscribe at any time . TODAY 'S EVENTS Offsite : Shigeru Ban To Oct 8 at MEC Vancouver Walk to 5K Clinic To Jun 4 , 6-7:30 pm at Atomic Vaudeville : Laissez Misérables To Jun 2 , 7:30-9:30 pm at Free Sahaja Yoga Meditation Classes To Dec 19 , 7-8 pm at Pecha Kucha New West Volume 19 Jun 1 , 7-10 pm at MORE EVENTS I SAW YOU new puppy dad at 1st ave vets You were there with your new jack-chi , who was wearing the cutest jean jacket . I was there ... MORE I SAW YOUS CONFESSIONS Tupper Thief I absolutely left you with one of my food storage containers as a reason to see you again . A ... MORE CONFESSIONS ALL EVENTS MUSIC ARTS FESTIVALS CLUBS DINING CONTESTS CLASSIFIEDS BEST OF VANCOUVER GOLDEN PLATES POST YOUR EVENT Golden Plates 2018 Renters of Vancouver Education : Upgrade your skills for a dramatically new world Vancouver Craft Beer Week 2018 TD Vancouver International Jazz Festival 2018 Schedule MORE FEATURED GUIDES MORE GUIDES STORIES EVENTS VENUES Search Sort by Sort by newest Sort by relevance Include archived stories Search Type of venue - All Venue Types - Arena/Stadium Arts/Entertainment Attraction/Things to Do Business/Service Casino Club Market/Groceries Museum/Art Gallery Pub/Bar Public Place/Landmark Restaurant/Cafe Shopping/Retail Theatre Search Type of event - All Event Categories - Activism Attractions Comedy Concerts Dance Festivals Film Food & Drink Forums & Talks Fundraisers & Charity Galleries Holiday Kids ' Stuff Literary/Books Markets Museums Nightlife Performing Arts Sports Theatre Other Events that start after ... See the Latest Print Edition GEORGIA STRAIGHT History About Us Contact Us Masthead Careers Site Map Covers ADVERTISE Advertise With Us Special Issues Link to Us LEGAL Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2018 Vancouver free press . Best of Vancouver , BOV and Golden Plates are trade-marks of Vancouver Free Press Publishing Corp. [ if ( lte IE 8 ) & ( ! IEMobile ) [ w1337 ] U.K. data watchdog raids Cambridge Analytica office in London CBC News Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player 's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows World news U.K. data watchdog raids Cambridge Analytica office in London Officers from Britain 's information regulator are raiding the London offices of data firm Cambridge Analytica after being granted a warrant as part of an investigation into alleged misuse of personal information . Company at centre of international storm over privacy and political manipulation The Associated Press Posted : Mar 23 , 2018 5:24 PM ET Last Updated : March 23 CBC 's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback U.S. Congress invites Mark Zuckerberg to testify at future Facebook user data hearing # DeleteFacebook ? Great idea , Elon Musk says Whistleblower says he would testify about Cambridge Analytica How to protect your personal info on Facebook Find more popular stories More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations , CBC P.O . Box 500 Station A Toronto , ON Canada , M5W 1E6 Toll-free ( Canada only ) : 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer : 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual , hearing , motor and cognitive challenges . Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada . All rights reserved . [ w1338 ] ‘ Zucktown ’ highlights concerns of Facebook ’ s fearsome reach The Star react-empty : 2 react-empty : 4 react-empty : 6 react-empty : 7 react-empty : 8 [ if lt IE 9 ] [ w1339 ] search Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV All News Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV All Reviews Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV All Buyer 's guides Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV Sign-up to our Newsletter YouTube Instagram Facebook Twitter Google+ search Pocket-lint Sections Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV News Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV All News Reviews Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV All Reviews Buyer 's guides Apps AR & VR Cameras Cars Drones Fitness Trackers Gadgets Games Headphones Laptops Parenting Phones Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Tablets TV All Buyer 's guides YouTube Instagram Facebook Twitter Google+ search Best Streaming services Live photos in iOS 11 Best ARKit-enabled apps Best DNA tests Amazon Prime Music Best VPN Services search Home Apps App news Facebook app news Facebook has recorded everything you ’ ve ever done on the site and here ’ s how you can see it 25 March 2018 Including how you can see which of your phone numbers and texts Facebook has stored Facebook Twitter Pintrest LinkedIn Google+ Mail Comment DIV text-content background : cyan ; Facebook has a tonne of data on you and your friends . With the recent revelations that third-party companies , like Cambridge Analytica , were allegedly using data harvested from their Facebook apps to , among other things , sway political opinion , people are starting to look more closely at what data Facebook actually stores about them . People are also realising what that all means , in a big-picture sense . If you zoom out , all your data points can essentially be connected together . Apps with full access to your information can , in a sense , create a digital twin of your life . With permission , they can see when you 're online , what you do online , where you 're going , who you call or chat or text with , and if you add up all those data points over the course of a decade , it can be really easy for them to predict your behavior , including , for instance , what you 'll likely be doing , say , next Tuesday at 10:13am . Cambridge Analytica scandal : How to change your Facebook settings 17 Facebook tips and tricks you probably never heard about 17 Facebook Messenger tips and tricks you likely did n't know Best VPN Services 2018 - Top 10 VPNs to keep your browsing secure As a result , many have taken to the drastic suggestion of deleting their account on the social network , but before you do the same , it ’ s worth seeing what data Facebook itself has collected on you over the years since you ’ ve been using the service . You can access your data archive via the settings panel in Facebook , and once you do , you might be a little surprised at just exactly how much data you ’ ve been giving away . Here 's what you need to know . How to access your Facebook archive Facebook lets you download a compressed archive that contains all of your memories and other information related to your account . You can keep everything from videos to your check ins . You can even keep your facial recognition data . If anything , your archive reveals just how much data and personal information Facebook has on you , which , in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal , is incredibly creepy and eye opening . To download your information , follow these steps : Go to your Settings menu on Facebook . Go to the General section . Click `` Download a copy of your Facebook data '' at the bottom . Click “ Start My Archive. ” You can learn more about this feature from here . What kinds of data does Facebook store ? Facebook stores different categories of data for different time periods . You may not find all your data since you 've joined Facebook , because it may have been deleted from its servers . You really need to download your personal archive to see exactly what kinds of data it has received and collected from you over time . But , in a nut shell , Facebook has kept a record of nearly everything you ’ ve ever done on the site . How about contact information for everyone one of not only your present friends but also people you were once friends with in the past ? It has that . Want to ring up that ex-partner ? Go for it . What about that friend you fell out with ? It ’ s likely got those details , too . In fact , any contact information they ’ ve provided Facebook and shared , perhaps without realising it , is yours now to do with as you will . When a Pocket-lint editor downloaded her archive , she found an exact home address and multiple phone numbers and email addresses of one of her Pocket-lint co-workers - even though that co-worker did n't currently allow that information to be public . She found similar information for several other friends as well , including friends she had long-since deleted . It ’ s not just about contact information though ... The site has recorded every little interaction you ’ ve ever done . The ads you ’ ve clicked on , the friend requests you ’ ve turned down , and even the events you ’ ve attended , declined , or ignored . You might even find photos you 've once uploaded but later deleted . Oh wow my deleted Facebook Zip file contains info on every single phone cellphone call and text I made for about a year- cool totally not creepy . — Mat Johnson ( @ mat_johnson ) March 23 , 2018 But in amongst the data are anomalies we also can ’ t account for : people ’ s phone numbers that are certain we ’ ve never been friends with , but whose settings have been perhaps left open to us because of their privacy settings . Facebook also seems to have years ' worth of phone call metadata from some of our Android phones , including names , numbers , and the length of calls . The amount of data presented is shocking . Downloaded my facebook data as a ZIP file Somehow it has my entire call history with my partner 's mum pic.twitter.com/CIRUguf4vD — Dylan McKay ( @ dylanmckaynz ) March 21 , 2018 It 's certainly cause for concern - more so if you are a heavy user of Facebook . We ’ ve even been told what advertisers have been given our contact information - again , all of which we ’ ve probably agreed to at some point , but not necessarily understanding exactly what was involved when answering that fun quiz . We are all aware that Facebook keeps this data , but it ’ s not until it ’ s staring at you and presenting you with a trove of information about yourself that the ramifications of just what the company knows about you punches you in the face . You can see a full list of what 's included in the archive here , but we 'll summarize below : About Me ( information you added to the About section of your Timeline Account Status History ( the dates when your account was reactivated , deactivated , disabled , or deleted ) Active Sessions ( all stored active sessions , including date , time , device , IP address , and cookies , etc ) Ads Clicked ( dates , times , and titles of ads clicked ) Address ( your current address or any past addresses you had on your account ) Alternate Name ( any alternate names you have on your account ) Apps ( all of the apps you have added ) Birthday Visibility ( how your birthday appears on your Timeline ) Chat ( a history of the conversations you ’ ve had on Facebook Chat ) Check-ins ( the places you ’ ve checked into ) Connections ( the people who have liked your Page or Place , RSVPs , etc ) Credit Cards ( if you make purchases on Facebook and have given Facebook your credit card number ) Deleted Friends ( people you ’ ve removed as friends ) Education ( any information you added to Education field of your Timeline ) Emails ( emails added to your account - even those you may have removed ) . Events ( events you ’ ve joined or been invited to ) Facial Recognition Data ( aunique number based on photos you 're tagged in ) Favorite Quotes ( information you ’ ve added to the Favorite Quotes section of the About section of your Timeline ) Friend Requests ( pending sent and received , even deleted ones ) Friends ( a list of your friends ) Groups ( a list of groups you belong to on Facebook ) Downloaded Info ( even hidden from News Feed ) Any friends , apps or pages you ’ ve hidden from your News Feed . Hometown ( the place you added to hometown in the About section ) IP Addresses ( a list of IP addresses where you ’ ve logged in ) Last Location ( the last location associated with an update ) Activity Log ( likes on others ' posts ; posts , photos or other content you ’ ve liked ; likes on your own posts , etc ) Linked Accounts ( a list of the accounts you 've linked to your account ) IP address ( plus , date and time associated with logins to your account ) Logouts ( IP address , date and time associated with logouts ) Messages ( messages you ’ ve sent and received , except for deleted ones ) Name Changes ( any changes you ’ ve made to the original name you used when you signed up for Facebook ) Networks ( affiliations with schools or workplaces that you belong to ) Notes ( any notes you ’ ve written and published to your account ) Notification Settings ( a list of all your notification preferences and whether you have email and text enabled ) Pages You Admin ( a list of pages you admin ) Pending Friend Requests ( pending sent and received friend requests ) Photos ( photos you ’ ve uploaded to your account ) Photos Metadata ( any metadata with your uploaded photos ) Physical Tokens ( vadges you ’ ve added to your account ) Pokes ( a list of who ’ s poked you and who you ’ ve poked ) Political Views ( any information you added to Political Views in the About section of Timeline ) Posts by You ( anything you posted to your own Timeline , like photos , videos and status updates ) Posts by Others ( anything posted to your Timeline by someone else , like wall posts or links shared on your Timeline ) Posts to Others ( anything you posted to someone else ’ s Timeline , like photos , videos and status updates ) Privacy Settings ( your privacy settings ) Recent Activities ( actions you ’ ve taken and interactions you ’ ve recently had ) Registration Date ( the date you joined Facebook ) Religious Views ( the current information you added to Religious Views in the About section of your Timeline ) Removed Friends ( people you ’ ve removed as friends ) Screen Names ( the screen names you ’ ve added to your account , and the service they ’ re associated with ) Searches ( searches you ’ ve made on Facebook ) Shares ( ex : a news article you 've shared with others on Facebook using the Share button or link ) Status Updates ( any status updates you ’ ve posted ) Work ( any current information you ’ ve added to Work in the About section ) Vanity URL ( your Facebook URL ( ex : username or vanity for your account ) Should you delete Facebook ? This is a personal decision that we ca n't decide for you . If you decide to permanently delete Facebook , we explain how to do that here . However , keep in mind that since the Cambridge Analytica scandal emerged , Facebook has laid out a three-step plan to rebuilding user trust . The most important change is that Facebook will soon remove developer access to your data if you haven ’ t used an app in three months . Plus , it will reduce the data you give an app when you sign in - to only your name , profile photo , and email address . So , even though different developers in the past could request access to different amounts of data , which you likely unwittingly granted , going forward , most of the data points listed above will not be available to them . But let 's not forget that Facebook will still collect and store all this data on you . It also owns other companies , like WhatsApp and Instagram , which collect and store your data . If you want to hide some of your data from these services right now , you can revoke third-party app permissions to your data and then disable a service 's access to your mic , camera , SMS , contacts , location , etc ( via your device 's settings for that service ) . Better yet , you could even go 'off the grid ' , but that 's not realistic . Thankfully , people are starting to wake up . It 's only a matter of time before all these services and apps stop creeping on us so much . We realise they need our data and capitalise on it by selling it to advertisers , but enough is enough . We , as their users , are n't a product . /DIV text-content DIV ads-content background : yellow ; /DIV ads-content Facebook Apps In Apps Walmart 's Jetblack shopping service launches with built-in AI assistant How to get round the Instapaper outage in Europe and read your saved articles Google 's Neighbourly app lets out-of-towners ask residents for tips Wondershare Dr Fone - Unlock : How to bypass your Samsung or LG Android phone 's lock screen to restore access to your phone Messages in iCloud explained : How it works and how to turn it on See the Lego set you 're about to buy in AR on the Argos shopping app How to turn off Find My iPhone and remove your device from it How to blacklist news sources in Apple News on iOS devices The best Amazon UK Prime Day deals 2018 : Cheap TVs , Kindles , consoles , smartphones , Echo deals and more Amazon Music app for iOS and Android now has hands-free Alexa voice control search Pocket-lint Gadget Awards RSS Feeds Newsletter Site map Contact us About Pocket-lint Reviews Policy Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertise on Pocket-lint 2003 - 2018 © Pocket-lint Limited PO Box 4770 , Ascot , SL5 5DP . All rights reserved . England and Wales company registration number 5237480 . [ w1340 ] The week Facebook 's value plunged $ 58bn - BBC News [ if IE ] endif ] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst Begin iStats 20100118 ( UX-CMC 1.1009.3 ) End iStats ( UX-CMC ) [ if ( lt IE 9 ) & ( ! IEMobile ) if ( IE 8 ) endif if ( IE 7 ) endif if ( IE 6 ) endif endif ] Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow 's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC Styling hook for shared modules only [ if lt IE 9 endif ] BBC News Navigation The week Facebook 's value plunged $ 58bn 23 March 2018 Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link https : //www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-43517995 Read more about sharing . These are external links and will open in a new window Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Facebook ended the week $ 58bn lower in value after its handling of a historic data breach . Its founder Mark Zuckerberg apologised for data breaches that affected 50 million users . The apology did not stop investors from selling shares in Facebook , with many wondering just how bad the damage would be for the social network . The breach was called a `` light bulb '' moment for users , spawning the social media trend # deletefacebook . All the negative headlines led to some advertisers saying `` enough is enough '' . Shares in the social media company fell from $ 176.80 on Monday to around $ 159.30 by Friday night . Will the shares recover ? Facebook 's initial public offering in 2012 priced shares at $ 38 each , giving the company a market valuation of close to $ 104bn . Following steady user growth and a dominant space in the digital advertising market ensuring revenues , Facebook 's share price climbed to $ 190 by February this year . Brian Wieser , senior analyst at Pivotal Research , said he had one of the most negative outlooks for Facebook 's share price on Wall Street . `` I had a $ 152 price target on Facebook for 2018 - and that was before the events of this week '' . Mr Wieser said the share price slump showed investors were wary of increased regulation and users leaving the platform `` but there 's little risk of advertisers leaving Facebook . Where else would they go ? '' Hargreaves Lansdown senior analyst Laith Khalaf said the week had been a `` damaging episode '' in Facebook 's history . `` One of the secrets of Facebook 's success has been that the more people who use Facebook , the more integral it becomes to its customers . Unfortunately for Facebook , the same dynamic cuts in the opposite direction if it loses a meaningful number of users as a result of this scandal. `` What has been the response from advertisers ? Advertising firm M & C Saatchi 's founding director David Kershaw said the revelations that a 2014 Facebook quiz essentially harvested data from users and their connected friends without consent have led to a backlash from advertisers . `` Clients have come to the point , quite rightly , where enough is enough , `` Mr Kershaw said . Advertisers Mozilla and Commerzbank on Wednesday suspended ads on the social media platform . On Friday tech entrepreneur Elon Musk had the official Facebook pages for his companies Telsa and Space X deleted . `` Make no mistake Facebook is an amazing medium from the advertiser 's point of view because of the accuracy of its targeting - which comes from data . But I think those large companies are very nervous to be associated with a medium where the data is being abused , particularly in a political context , '' Mr Kershaw said . Mr Kershaw told the BBC any change in Facebook 's data protection policy was more likely to come from the threat of a withdrawal of `` hard money from advertisers rather than consumers running hashtag [ campaigns ] on Twitter , '' referring to the # DeleteFacebook and # BoycottFacebook hashtags that have become popular . UK advertising group ISBA met Facebook on Friday and said its `` constructive and challenging '' summit had convinced the group that the social media company was taking steps to `` rapidly address public and advertiser concerns '' , including app audits and face-to-face meetings with individual UK advertising clients . It will take some time before it becomes clear if the advertising industry 's dissatisfaction with Facebook leads to them actually pulling their money out of the social network , or whether the howls of condemnation amount to mere posturing from a group of concerned clients . Has Zuckerberg done enough to reassure people ? The Facebook founder tried to reassure users `` the most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago . '' However , Passion Capital tech investor Eileen Burbidge , who is also on the Prime Minister 's Business Advisory Group , said Facebook 's reassurance to users and clients took too long . `` The fact that it took them five days to come out with a statement , which happened to be a fair , sensible and comprehensive statement , was just far too long , '' Mrs Burbidge said . `` I think they were just really tone deaf for too many days . '' The technology venture capitalist said Facebook underestimated the consumer backlash that occurred once their data was used for political purposes . Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of a row over whether it used the personal data of millions of Facebook users to sway the outcome of the US 2016 presidential election and the UK Brexit referendum . `` Some people are using the term 'political manipulation ' . `` They [ Facebook ] assumed they had already taken care of this ... as they had already changed their terms of service , for example , '' Mrs Burbidge said . In Mr Zuckerberg 's online statement he offered a timeline of how Facebook 's data permission agreements with users and other companies had changed since the 2014 personality quiz app was able to scrape data from quiz takers and their contacts without their express permission . Mrs Burbidge said there may need to be new regulation over political campaigning `` which really has n't kept up with social media '' . What will Facebook users do ? Technology writer Kate Bevan said the week 's events have woken Facebook 's users up to the fact that the platform 's games , quizzes and apps could harvest their data for more serious intents . `` This week feels to me like a real light bulb moment where people are understanding that it 's not just clicking 'like ' on Facebook , it 's giving your data away '' . The sentiment was echoed by the European Union 's commissioner for justice , consumers and gender equality Vera Jourova who said the Cambridge Analytica allegations had been `` a huge wake-up call '' for Facebook users about the demand for their data . `` The tiger has gotten out of the cage '' . Related Topics Data protection Facebook Advertising Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Data breaches Companies Share this story About sharing More on this story 22 March 2018 22 March 2018 21 March 2018 Top Stories US : China is 'intimidating neighbours ' The US defence chief says Beijing 's South China Sea actions raise questions about its broader goals . 2 June 2018 'Scourge ' of plastic on beaches tackled 2 June 2018 Trump says summit with Kim is back on 1 June 2018 Features [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Living on a rock in the North Atlantic [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Capital records : Revisit London 's iconic album cover images [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Review : Fortnite - Battle Royale ★★★☆☆ [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Written off aged five : From bottom set to deputy head [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Meet Norman , the psychopathic AI closed in responsive-image-end [ if lt IE 9 endif ] opened in responsive-image-start The witch hunts of Papua New Guinea closed in responsive-image-end [ if lt IE 9 endif ] opened in responsive-image-start Better orgasms and no leaks : Tips for a strong pelvic floor [ if lt IE 9 endif ] The best news photos from the past week [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Ramadan : The 'shame ' of eating during a period Elsewhere on the BBC [ if lt IE 9 endif ] Will it be the next food fad ? Full article Cockroach milk [ if lt IE 9 [ w1341 ] Facebook data scandal is corruption and destroys democracy The National standard AdvertisingInit standard Sourcepoint standard PianoInit GRAPESHOT channel tag for NewsQuest GRAPESHOT channel tag END redesign UserSubscriptionArticleGate You 've read Subscribe now for unlimited access Help fund our journalism for only £1.74 a week ! Alternatively , register to read more articles . Already registered or subscribed ? Sign in Please enable cookies to read the full article . Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipisicing elit , sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua . Ut enim ad minim veniam , quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat . Duis aute irure dolor in re cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident , sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum . Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipisicing elit , sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua . Ut enim ad minim veniam , quis ure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident , sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum . Lorem ivelit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Exc Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipisicing elit , sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua . Ut enim ad minim veniam , quis ure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident , sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum . standard AfterBodyTagInclude # # + + # # # # : ` # # # # # . # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # ` # # # # # . # # # # # # # # # # , # # + # # # # # + # # # # # ' # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # : . # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # ` # # , # + # # : # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # + # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # + # # # # # # # # # ` # # # # + # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # + # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # . # # # . ' # # # # ' # # # # # # # # # , # # : # # , ' # # # # ' # # # # # # # # # # # # ' # # + # # : # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # ` # # + # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # ` # # + ` # # # # # # # # # # # # # + # # : # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # + Developers , designers , testers - interested in working for us ? Contact this guy ... .https : //uk.linkedin.com/in/hillsimon redesign FotoramaComponents redesign ResponsiveSiteHeader redesign ResponsiveHeaderTopNavigation redesign-national ResponsiveHeaderTopNavigationLinks Subscribe Pagesuite Edition Social and account Scotland 13°c Register/Login Register Sign in Register Sign in redesign ResponsiveHeaderPrimaryNavigation Mobile sticky navigation redesign-national NavigationMobileSticky Desktop sticky navigation redesign NavigationDesktopSticky News Politics Sport Business Culture World Comment Community Shop Roadshow Library Resources Standard Non-sticky navigation redesign NavigationNonSticky Facebook data scandal is corruption and destroys democracy redesign ResponsiveArticleDisplayMainV2 redesign ResponsiveArticleDisplayComments YOU will have heard the name Cambridge Analytica everywhere in the past week . Working for over a year , The Guardian and the Observer ; the New York Times and Channel 4 News broke the story of how Cambridge Analytica worked with the stolen data of over 50 million Facebook profiles to sway people ’ s opinions towards Donald Trump in the 2016 US presidential election . The story has everything that makes for fascinating news : a whistleblower , entrapment , sex , money and politics . Whistleblower Christopher Wylie worked at Cambridge Analytica ( backed by right-wing American billionaire Robert Mercer ) and shared details of how Steve Bannon , the alt-right former chief strategist for Donald Trump , believed that to change people ’ s politics , first you have to change culture . Changing culture and thus getting more people to vote for Donald Trump , was the goal and Cambridge Analytica were the firm to achieve it . READ MORE : Theresa May pressed on Cambridge Analytica connections to the Tory party To follow through though , they would need a lot of data and information about a lot of people . To get this data Cambridge Analytica worked with someone named Aleksandr Kogan who worked for a company named Global Science Research . He also happens to be an associate professor at St Petersburg State University in Russia … Aleksandr created a Facebook app which would test someone ’ s personality . We have all seen these apps in our news feed and you have probably , like me , received annoying notifications when a friend uses one of these apps . Whenever you start using a Facebook app you are met with a page asking you to give the app permission to access your information , or to send a message to your friends or post on your wall . What you might not have known , as I certainly didn ’ t , is that these apps can be used , not just to access all of your information , but to access all of the information on every person on your friends list . This workaround allowed Aleksandr and Cambridge Analytica access to over 50 million Facebook users ’ data without seeking their permission . In turn , Cambridge Analytica then used this information to target key voters in areas that Trump needed to win to secure his spot in the Oval Office . Initially , I wondered how much information a Facebook profile can actually hold about any individual . Letters : Did Cambridge Analytica sway the indyref result ? Clearly wondering the same thing , Twitter user Dylan McKay ( @ dylanmckaynz ) downloaded all the data Facebook holds on him and started digging . He found phone records , contact lists and data on texts sent and received , and even contacts he had deleted from his phone . It ’ s not hard to imagine then , that with this level of data held on 50 million people – never mind adding in views shared in posts , private messages , page likes , article likes and websites you ’ ve signed into via Facebook – that Cambridge Analytica was able to tailor propaganda and fake news to appeal to you and sway your opinion . And that is exactly what they did . Cambridge Analytica don ’ t just work in political data and advertising , however . In secret recordings by Channel 4 News , the now suspended chief executive of Cambridge Analytica is seen admitting that they can send women ( referred to as , “ girls ” in the video ) to have sex with a political candidate to make them susceptible to blackmail ; or , they could even send someone pretending to be a property developer to meet with a political candidate to offer them a bribe which they will film using secret cameras and then release online . You have to enjoy the irony of this discussion all being caught on a secret camera . As the Channel 4 News story was airing Facebook staff were entering the Cambridge Analytica offices . The Information Commissioner stated she was filing for a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica , but at the time of writing this she still has not received it , five days later . This story is shocking , interesting and fascinating , but most of all it is utterly terrifying . Since these stories initially broke , we have seen a flood of further reporting showing that Cambridge Analytica have worked for the UK Government , have very suspicious ties to the Tory party , and have meddled in elections all over the world . As well as previous reporting which showed Cambridge Analytica ’ s ties to the Leave campaign in the EU referendum . The use of social media to directly advertise to people is not new . Initially popularised by the Obama campaign in 2008 , it has been used by political campaigns ever since . What Cambridge Analytica does is different , however . Where in the past campaigns would use Facebook advertising to deliver key policy messages in areas where they were polling badly , Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign stole people ’ s data and used it against them by spreading propaganda , lies and fake news . We must , from now on , be more wary and diligent when getting news from social media sources , and everyone must consider the information they are sharing with huge corporations who sell you as a commodity . But most of all , we must recognise that this is corruption at the highest level . This completely undermines and destroys quality democracy . Now more than ever , we need to demand better from both our politicians and media . Where social media was initially a ground-breaking tool we used to get to the heart of a story and bypass editorial bias , it has now been hijacked to spread disinformation and we should all be extremely worried . redesign ResponsiveArticleDisplayComments standard BlockMegaNewsMostPopular Most popular Most commented Tab panes Loading ... Read more Get involved with the news in your community Send your stories and photos now standard BlockMostPopular standard BlockFrontEndConfig Most popular Most commented Loading ... Read more Comments section from the ResponsiveCommentsInclude Sort comments by Oldest first Newest first Highest scored Lowest scored Loading comments ... Suspend Last Updated : Reply Quote Edit Delete Report wrote : Post reply Save comment Cancel Are you sure you want to delete this comment ? Yes , delete the comment No , keep the comment redesign-national ResponsiveSiteFooter Subscribe AdChoices Archive Topics Site Map Exchange and Mart Dating Contact Us Terms of advertising Terms & Conditions Contributor Terms Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Diversity Statemennt regulated This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here ©Copyright 2001-2018 . This site is part of Newsquest 's audited local newspaper network . A Gannett Company . redesign ResponsiveMegaMenu News Politics Sport Business Culture World Comment Columnists Cartoons Gàidhlig Scots Community Shop Roadshow Library Resources redesign-national ResponsiveHeaderTopNavigationLinks Subscribe Pagesuite Edition standard BrightcoveJs standard GoogleDfp Promos Loading script asynchronously VisualDNA Audience Analytics Tag due to the dynamic nature of calling this , we ca n't do it in a compiled script standard AudienceTracking End SiteCatalyst code version : H.19.3 . redesign AdblockInterference AD BLOCKER INTERFERENCE DETECTED Your ad blocker is interfering with the operation of this site . Please disable it or whitelist this site . Thank you . [ w1342 ] Regulators search Cambridge Analytica 's London offices for seven hours over Facebook row /* IE 11 Tile for Windows 8.1 Start Screen */ OVERLAY LOGO BAR CLOSE BUTTON NAV PRIMARY Premium News Politics World Sport Technology Business Money Opinion Travel Culture Lifestyle Health and Fitness Fashion Luxury Cars Weddings Obituaries NAV SECONDARY Free Mobile App Jobs Financial Solutions Rewards Events Dating Offers Shop Garden Shop Bookshop Box Office Puzzles Fantasy Football Work at The Telegraph Telegraph Corporate Search Video Rewards Upgrade to Premium My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED My Account My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED My details My newsletters Logout Upgrade to Premium Search Video Rewards Subscribe - 30 days free My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED Login My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED Register My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED Search Video Rewards My Account My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED My details My newsletters Logout Home News Sport Business NAV OVERLAY BUTTON News Politics Brexit Opinion Conservatives Labour Party Lib Dems SNP DUP Ukip US Politics Newsletters Telegraph News Politics Regulators search Cambridge Analytica 's London offices for seven hours over Facebook row Politics latest Scotland 'could be hit with more tax hikes ' after sudden £389 million budget fall Supermarket 'guilt-lanes ' and two-for-one junk food offers will be banned to tackle child obesity HMRC 's spend on consultants rises by 9,000pc as MPs attack 'staggering ' cost increase Donald Trump has the courage and wit to look at 'green ' hysteria and say : no deal Charles Moore Countryside is being 'concreted over ' as greenfield sites developed at fastest rate for 25 years Brexit bulletin : Save Penka the pregnant cow from heartless EU officials DUP accuses Theresa May of 'half-cooked ' customs plan as it urges her to get tough with Brussels The NHS 's travails with private firms stem from an obsession with big companies Sophie Jarvis Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy forced out of job after losing no-confidence vote Northern Ireland 'could have dual UK-EU status under plans to break Brexit deadlock ' Front Bench : Europe 's dilemma is that if it pushes Donald Trump on trade , he might just tear up the WTO rule book 44:37 At least one Remainer Cabinet minister to resign over Brexit by the Autumn , says peer The Tories ' biggest future challenge is not Brexit : it 's AI , and the chaos it could unleash Jeremy Warner SNP under fire over £1.7 billion downgrade in Scottish taxes Nicola Sturgeon told to 'stop putting nationalism before the NHS ' as indy blueprint backlash grows Brexit bulletin : Eurocrat corruption , brawls and bullying exposed Lord Lawson denies accusations of Brexit 'hypocrisy ' over French residency application Telegraph wins ruling over Scottish Government 'eradicates ' Union flag report Labour 's bizarre political music festival is a white elephant driven by hubris Tom Harris Drugs at festivals are inevitable . It 's time to focus on safety , not criminalising users Abbie Llewelyn Brexit department DExEU 'to be absorbed by the Foreign Office next year ' Contact us About us Rewards Archive Reader Prints Branded Content Syndication Guidelines Privacy Terms and Conditions Advertising terms © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018 We 've noticed you 're adblocking . We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism . We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future . Thank you for your support . Need help ? Click here for instructions Close [ w1343 ] New rules will protect against the abuse of personal data , EU says HeraldScotland standard AdvertisingInit standard Sourcepoint standard PianoInit GRAPESHOT channel tag for NewsQuest GRAPESHOT channel tag END redesign UserSubscriptionArticleGate You 've read Subscribe now for unlimited access Subscribe from only £1.74 per week Alternatively , register to read more articles . Already registered or subscribed ? Sign in Please enable cookies to read the full article . Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipisicing elit , sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua . Ut enim ad minim veniam , quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat . Duis aute irure dolor in re cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident , sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum . Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipisicing elit , sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua . Ut enim ad minim veniam , quis ure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident , sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum . Lorem ivelit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Exc Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipisicing elit , sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua . Ut enim ad minim veniam , quis ure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur . Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident , sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum . standard AfterBodyTagInclude # # + + # # # # : ` # # # # # . # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # ` # # # # # . # # # # # # # # # # , # # + # # # # # + # # # # # ' # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # : . # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # ` # # , # + # # : # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # + # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # + # # # # # # # # # ` # # # # + # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # + # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # . # # # . ' # # # # ' # # # # # # # # # , # # : # # , ' # # # # ' # # # # # # # # # # # # ' # # + # # : # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # ` # # + # # # # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # ` # # + ` # # # # # # # # # # # # # + # # : # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # , # # # # # , # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # + Developers , designers , testers - interested in working for us ? Contact this guy ... .https : //uk.linkedin.com/in/hillsimon redesign FotoramaComponents redesign ResponsiveSiteHeader redesign ResponsiveHeaderTopNavigation redesign-herald ResponsiveHeaderTopNavigationLinks Subscribe Jobs Homes Cars Pagesuite edition Announcements Book an ad Business directory Buy archive photos Dating Social and account Glasgow 15°c Register/Login Register Sign in Register Sign in redesign ResponsiveHeaderPrimaryNavigation Mobile sticky navigation redesign NavigationMobileSticky Desktop sticky navigation redesign NavigationDesktopSticky News Sport Politics Business HQ Opinion Arts & Ents Life & Style Announcements Puzzles Discover Ayrshire Standard Non-sticky navigation redesign NavigationNonSticky redesign ResponsiveHeaderSubNavigation News Home News World News Health Education Crime & Courts Law Transport Environment New rules will protect against the abuse of personal data , EU says redesign ResponsiveArticleDisplayMainV2 redesign ResponsiveArticleDisplayComments NEW data protection rules will help guard against the abuse of personal information to manipulate voters , EU bosses have said . European Commissioner for Justice Vera Jourová insisted the regulations will provide the “ best set of consumer protections and rights in the world ” . It comes amid widespread controversy over the use of Facebook data by Cambridge Analytica to allegedly influence elections . The shadowy firm is at the centre of a row over harvesting data and using it to sway the outcome of the US presidential election and Brexit referendum . Ms Jourová said revelations Cambridge Analytica had access to the personal data of over 50 million people were “ unsettling ” . She added : “ What ’ s more unsettling is how this data has been used to change people 's behaviour , to influence the way they vote and at the end of the day how our democracies work . “ While we still need to understand better what happened , it is already clear that something went terribly wrong. ” She added : “ These revelations are again a stark reminder that the modernised data protection rules , which will come into application in May , are urgently needed . “ They will bring accountability , transparency and responsibility in the way the companies handle their users ’ data . “ If a company collects data for a certain purpose , they can not use it for another purpose , unless the user gives their consent . “ Indeed , Europeans will be in control of their data – their consent will have to be active through an opt-in . Also , these new rules will be enforced by data protection authorities , which will have real sanctioning powers . “ The European General Data Protection Regulation provides the best set of consumer protections and rights in the world , so far , when it comes to data. ” She said citizens needed to “ take back control and ownership ” of their data . Undercover reporters for Channel 4 filmed Cambridge Analytica bosses discussing smear campaigns and `` honey traps '' designed to discredit political opponents . The firm has denied any wrongdoing , but its CEO Alexander Nix was suspended in the wake of the footage . redesign ResponsiveArticleDisplayComments standard BlockMegaNewsMostPopular Most popular Most commented Tab panes Loading ... Read more Get involved with the news in your community Send your stories and photos now standard BlockMostPopular standard BlockFrontEndConfig Most popular Most commented Loading ... Read more Comments section from the ResponsiveCommentsInclude Comments & Moderation Readers ’ comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ’ comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ‘ report this post ’ link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . Read the new rules here Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . redesign-herald ResponsiveSiteFooter © Copyright 2018 Herald & Times Group All rights reserved Terms of advertising Terms & Conditions Contributor terms Privacy policy How we use cookies Employment Diversity Statemennt Our News Services Apps and Kindle Newspaper Digital editions Back issues Online archive Email , Twitter , RSS Syndication Our Advertising Services Family notices Book your newspaper ad Contact the sales team View newspaper ads Commercial features Our Personal Services Help , feedback & contact dating Travel services Photo sales Crosswords & sudoku Our Colleagues Evening Times The National Scotland 's Homes The Scottish Farmer Scottish Horse Herald Drive Times Out Leap Newsquest Media Group Scottish Newspaper Printers s1homes.com s1rental.com s1jobs.com regulated This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here redesign ResponsiveMegaMenu News Home News World News Health Education Crime & Courts Law Transport Environment Sport Football Comment Tennis Golf Rugby Other Sports Politics Scottish Politics Brexit Political Comment Other Political News Business HQ Company News Markets & Economy People Opinion Personal Finance Entrepreneur Farming Opinion Columnists The Diary Herald View SH View Letters Obituaries Camley 's Cartoon Arts & Ents Comedy Festival TV & Radio Music Film Books & Poetry Visual Stage Opinion Life & Style Real Life Fashion Food & Drink Restaurant Reviews Travel Homes News Galleries and Memories Announcements Death Notices Public Notices In Memoriam Acknowledgements Birthdays Anniversaries Greetings Births All Public Notices Puzzles Archive puzzles Discover Ayrshire redesign-herald ResponsiveHeaderTopNavigationLinks Subscribe Jobs Homes Cars Pagesuite edition Announcements Book an ad Business directory Buy archive photos Dating standard BrightcoveJs standard GoogleDfp Promos Loading script asynchronously VisualDNA Audience Analytics Tag due to the dynamic nature of calling this , we ca n't do it in a compiled script standard AudienceTracking End SiteCatalyst code version : H.19.3 . redesign AdblockInterference AD BLOCKER INTERFERENCE DETECTED Your ad blocker is interfering with the operation of this site . Please disable it or whitelist this site . Thank you . 