[w817]     Mysterious death of data analyst who worked for Uhuru campiagn    Dan Muresan’s death in a Nairobi hotel was until yesterday just another case of a man dying in a foreign land. But the whistleblower on the dirty workings of British firm Cambridge Analytica (CA) has shifted focus on the Romanian’s death in 2012, six months before the 2013 General Election. Chris Wylie, who succeeded Muresan as a political strategist, has exposed how CA influenced the divisive messaging in the last two presidential elections in Kenya and several other countries. “I did not know this at the time when I joined, but my predecessor was just found dead in a hotel room. That is why they had a vacancy. I can’t say he was murdered. He died in his hotel room,” Wylie said. Wylie is at the centre of the expose that has revealed the involvement of the shadowy firm in influencing campaigns in several countries. He said he regretted helping set up CA. In his apology, he said he was sorry for having played a “pivotal role in setting up a company that I think has done a lot of harm to the democratic process in a lot of countries”, including Kenya. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Mure?an died in September 2012, six months before the 2013 presidential elections in which Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner, beating his main challenger, Raila Odinga. No information was made available about Muresan’s death at the time or his specific role in shaping the upcoming political contest. He was an only child of a former Romanian Agriculture minister, Iona Avram Muresan, who was sentenced to seven years in prison for embezzlement. According to Romania ambassador to Nairobi, Julia Pataki, Muresan’s family opted to keep the cause of his death private. “That is privileged information which I cannot share. I have to respect the request of the family that the cause of death is confidential,” she said. Unlike in Kenya, where such deaths are usually the subject of a public inquest, she added, families in Romania can choose how they wish to treat the death of their kin. British telecommunications At the time of his death, Romania’s Foreign Ministry reported that Mure?an was working with a British telecommunications company and had been in Kenya for a while. “He had not yet registered his presence on Kenyan territory with the Romanian diplomatic mission. The same source shows that after the police arrived, the body was taken by an undertaker company for an autopsy,” the ministry said. The results of the postmortem were never made public. Cambridge Analytica executives have boasted about using data to drive political campaigns. Similar tactics were employed in the vote by Britain to leave the European Union and delivering victory for President Donald Trump in the US.   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w828] How billionaire paid Cambridge Analytica £2m to help GEJ  								How Nigerian billionaire paid £2m to data firm to help GEJ in 2015 elections 				"The Guardian UK exposes how a Nigerian billionaire hired Cambridge Analytica to help Jonathan Goodluck win the 2015 elections which he eventually lost. Published: 21.03.2018 , Refreshed: 22.03.2018 Print eMail  Tweet  Former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan waves to the crowd as he leaves the office during the inauguration of President Mohammadu Buhari at the Eagles Square in Abuja, on May 29, 2015 (AFP/File) googleoff: index googleon: index 24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter!   24/7 Live - Subscribe to the Pulse Newsletter!  news An ex-employee of Cambridge Analytica has revealed that an unnamed Nigerian billionaire paid the data analytics company £2M to help Goodluck Jonathan in the 2015 election. Cambridge Analytica  has been in the news following revelations that it used data it got from Facebook users to sway election results in America. AFP says Facebook and the data firm are being accused of using the data they gleaned to help Donald Trump win the US election. Alexander Nix is chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, which has denied misusing Facebook data for its work on Trump&apos;s 2016 campaign (AFP/File) ALSO READ : Cambridge Analytica has set up a new data company Seven individuals who had insider knowledge about the campaign in Nigeria have revealed how computer hackers from Israel worked with Cambridge Analytica a few weeks to the historic 2015 election. Cambridge Analytica and the 2015 elections According to Guardian UK , a former employee of the firm said “ It was the kind of campaign that was our bread and butter.We’re employed by a billionaire who’s panicking at the idea of a change of government and who wants to spend big to make sure that doesn’t happen"" in reference to the 2015 elections in Nigeria. Mohammadu Buhari (R) defeated Nigeria&apos;s former president Goodluck Jonathan in March 28 elections -- the first time in Nigeria&apos;s history that an opposition candidate had beaten a sitting president (AFP/File)   The ex-employee also alleged that their team were connected to Israeli hackers who were mandated to get dirt on Muhammadu Buhari , who was the APC presidential candidate. The APC Change poster during the 2015 elections (Africa Check)   It was also revealed that the hackers had offered the Analytica team, access to Buhari’s medical records and email correspondence. At the heart of the operation was Brittany Kaiser , a senior director at Cambridge Analytica. In December 2014, she would be introduced to an undisclosed Nigerian billionaire who wanted Goodluck Jonathan to win the 2015 elections. The billionaire wanted the operation to be top secret. Speaking further, the ex-employee said “ [Kaiser] got a phone call. It was just before Christmas and she flew out to meet them in Washington DC. It was all a bit ridiculous. It was only six to eight weeks before the election and they were looking to spend nearly $2m. ” Guardian UK further writes “ There were a lot of scared millionaires worried that Buhari would get in . It was all very last-minute. A team flew out to Abuja and put together a communications campaign. It was a straightforward, normal comms campaign in most respects. 2015 campaign posters of Muhammadu Buhari and  Goodluck Jonathan (BBC) “ The election was a big deal. At stake, the future of the most populous country in Africa, and potential access to its lucrative oil reserves. The sitting president was favourite to win, though Buhari was doing unexpectedly well. Buhari ran a very inspiring political campaign in 2015 (oblongmediadotcom)   “Not least because his team had hired AKPD, once the firm of former Barack Obama strategist David Axelrod , which was pushing a slick, social media heavy Obama-esque message of hope."" ALSO READ : #DeleteFacebook becomes a movement after Cambridge Analytica expose Propaganda message The ex-employee said that a video was put together to portray Buhari as somebody who will promote Sharia in Nigeria. The script for the video: “ Coming to Nigeria on February 15th, 2015.” “Dark. Scary. And very uncertain. Sharia for all.” “What would Nigeria look like if sharia were imposed by Buhari? ” Also, a former contractor of the company revealed that another set of video footage was created to scare Buhari’s supporters from voting. He said “ It was voter suppression of the most crude and basic kind. It was targeted at Buhari voters in Buhari regions to basically scare the shit out of them and stop them from voting. ” The script: "" If Buhari wins, the film warns: women would wear the veil. Sharia law would be introduced. And the inference is, you may be macheted to death . The Cambridge Analytica team was in Nigeria during this period which was a tense moment not only for the nation but them as well. "" It felt risky, being there. There were various points when we were told we were in danger "" says one of the team members. Israel did not want Buhari to win Guardian UK also said that suspected Israeli intelligence operatives held meetings with Cambridge Analytica to ensure that Buhari does not win. “There was a two-hour meeting that took place in the hotel lobby between two senior campaign members and Israeli intelligence. After which they swept our hotel rooms for listening devices and said they would switch out our phones. The story we were told was that there were intelligence agents from a number of different countries, including Israel and France, who were supporting Goodluck Jonathan and helping the campaigns,” an employee said. "" Basically the Israelis didn’t want [Buhari] to win "" he further said. Things got worse for the Cambridge Analytica teams in Nigeria. A few weeks before the election they had to leave the country after they found out from their London office that their safety had been compromised by the Israeli operatives. They believed the operatives had personal emails and information on Buhari which they did not want access to. In 2013, there were reports that Jonathan Goodluck awarded a $40m contract to an Israeli company to allegedly monitor the Internet communication by Nigerians.  The name of the company was called Elbit Systems. In its article, Guardian UK noted that Jonathan Goodluck was not aware of the voter manipulation done on his behalf. The role of Cambridge Analytica in the 2017 Kenyan general election The exposé by  Channel 4 News  has brought to light damning revelations of how British Data Company, Cambridge Analytica, influenced the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta during the 2017 General Election. The then Cord presidential candidate Raila Odinga (left) and Jubilee presidential candidate Uhuru Kenyatta wave to the crowd during the national fasting and peace prayers at Uhuru Park, Nairobi on February 24, 2013. Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Christopher Wylie has revealed that his predecessor Dan Mureşan, died while working for the 2013 Kenyan Presidential campaigns. (Nation Media Group)   In an undercover investigation titled:   Cambridge Analytica Uncovered: Secret filming reveals election tricks , the firm’s top bosses admit to being the key drivers of Mr. Kenyatta’s campaigns. Cambridge Analytica executives described their techniques multiple times to an undercover reporter between November 2017 and January 2018. (Channel 4 News)   Alex Taylor , Cambridge’s Chief Data Officer and Managing Director Mark Turnbull were caught on tape detailing the role they played in Kenya’s elections. A man watches a hard-hitting online campaign ad just weeks before national elections, in Nairobi on July 13, 2017 (AFP)   Mr. Turnbull disclosed that they entered into a contract with President Kenyatta party in 2013 and continued during 2017 election when he vied for a second term. How does Facebook come into all of this? Facebook and data-analytics company Cambridge Analytica are in hot water after a whistleblower revealed that Cambridge Analytica harvested data from 50 million Facebook users without their knowledge or consent. The revelations have since led to British, EU, and US authorities to launch investigations into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica harvested information from 50 million Facebook users through an external app in 2015, according to Wylie, who worked there at the time. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, in his first public statement on the scandal engulfing the company, says the social network must ""step up"" and do more to protect user data (GETTY/AFP/File)   The data came from a personality quiz, which around 270,000 people were paid to take. The quiz — ""thisisyourdigitallife"" — in turn, pulled data from their friends&apos; profiles as well, ending in the enormous data stash. Cambridge Analytica harvested personal information on where users lived and what pages they liked, which helped build psychological profiles that analysed characteristics and personality traits. This kind of information was later deployed in political campaigns. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w829] The 3 steps Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook will take to avoid a repeat of the Cambridge Analytica scandal 				The 3 steps Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook will take to avoid a repeat of the Cambridge Analytica scandal  				"Facebook is going to notify the 50 million users whose data was misappropriated by the political research company.  Mark Zuckerberg has outlined three steps the company is taking following the Cambridge Analytica scandal. As many as 50 million users had their data taken by the political research firm without their knowledge or consent. The subsequent backlash has knocked tens of billions of dollars off the social networking company&apos;s market cap. Facebook says it will notify users whose data was taken, and restrict what app developers can access. Mark Zuckerberg has finally broken his silence on the Cambridge Analytica scandal that has roiled his company and knocked tens of billions off its market cap — announcing that Facebook will notify people whose data was misappropriated. In a statement published to his Facebook profile on Wednesday, the CEO said that ""we have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can&apos;t then we don&apos;t deserve to serve you."" The scandal centres around Cambridge Analytica, a political research company that was used by Trump&apos;s presidential campaign. It made unauthorized use of 50 million people&apos;s data that they had shared on Facebook, with some experts saying it was likely only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to misuse of Facebook users&apos; information. Zuckerberg said that changes made to Facebook&apos;s systems ""years ago"" already help prevent this from reoccurring — but also outlined three additional steps the company will be making going forward. In a separate blog post without an author listed, Facebook also outlined six steps it is taking , including many of the same points as the CEO&apos;s. For starters, Facebook is going to audit apps that had ""access to large amounts of information"" prior to 2014 , which is when it restricted the amount of data they could take. It will notify people whose data is found to have been ""misused"" by companies — including those affected by Cambridge Analytica&apos;s actions. The company is also going to ""restrict developers&apos; data access even further to prevent other kinds of abuse."" By default, they will only be given name, profile picture, and email address, and restrict their access if they don&apos;t use it in three months. And it will try to make users ""understand which apps you&apos;ve allowed access to this data."" This means it will show users a ""tool"" to help them see what apps are using their data, and how they can stop them. The additional blog post says that Facebook plans to expand its ""bug bounty"" program, meaning it will reward security researchers who report ""misuses of data by app developers"" to the company. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w830] If Zuck wants us to take Facebook's response to the Cambridge Analytica scandal seriously, he should try saying 'sorry' "							"If Zuck wants us to take Facebook's response to the Cambridge Analytica scandal seriously, he should try saying 'sorry' (FB) Published: 21.03.2018 Print eMail  Tweet "				"50 million people's data has been misappropriated, and Facebook can't bring itself to say ""sorry."" Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks during the 2013 TechCrunch Disrupt conference on September 11, 2013 in San Francisco, California. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)  news CEO Mark Zuckerberg has finally broken his silence over the Cambridge Analytica scandal, but at no point did he say ""sorry."" 50 million users&apos; personal data was misappropriated by a political research firm without their knowledge or consent. If Facebook wants users to take its response seriously, it should try expressing more contrition. Mark Zuckerberg has finally broken his silence on the Cambridge Analytica scandal — but he isn&apos;t saying sorry. The Facebook CEO has published a lengthy post on his Facebook profile admitting his company ""made mistakes,"" and pledging to ""secure our platform."" But at no point did he actually apologise to the tens of millions of users whose personal data was harvested without their knowledge. To recap: The current firestorm facing Facebook centres around Cambridge Analytica, a political research company used by the Trump campaign (among others). It all began in 2013, when a researcher got 270,000 users to install a personality quiz app. That app scraped up not only the users&apos; personal data, but also that of all of their Facebook friends. That data was subsequently acquired by SCL, the parent company of Cambridge Analytica. This data trawling, while ethically dubious, wasn&apos;t against Facebook&apos;s terms of service at the time — it took until 2014 for Facebook to put new rules into place forbidding this behavior. The part that actually constituted a violation of Facebook&apos;s rules was the sale of the data. In 2015, Facebook learned that Cambridge Analytica had acquired this data, as Mark Zuckerberg confirmed in his post — but it didn&apos;t notify users at the time, or ban Cambridge Analytica. (The researcher&apos;s original app was banned.) It took until last Friday for Facebook to ban Cambridge Analytica, as the Guardian and the New York Times prepared to publish investigations into the company. The entire incident has been a public relations nightmare for Facebook: Its stock has dipped about 10% since Friday, but Zuckerberg never made any kind of statement or public appearance on the matter. On Wednesday, the 33-year-old exec finally addressed the crisis — without giving a full apology for how it handled the matter. ""We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can&apos;t then we don&apos;t deserve to serve you,"" his statement reads. ""We also made mistakes, there&apos;s more to do, and we need to step up and do it."" Later, he adds: ""I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I&apos;m responsible for what happens on our platform."" He gives the appearance of owning the company&apos;s ""mistakes,"" but never actually says sorry for them. Similarly, he describes the matter as a ""breach of trust,"" but never goes any further. Sheryl Sandberg, the company&apos;s chief operating officer, inched closer to an apology in a separate post, saying ""I deeply regret that we didn&apos;t do enough."" But she still stops short of an outright ""sorry."" The company has outlined a number of steps it is taking , including auditing apps that historically had large amounts of data, limiting apps&apos; access, and providing tools for users to better understand where their personal information is being used. And it also plans to notify the 50 million users whose data was obtained by Cambridge Analytica — though only years after the fact. But if Facebook really wants to regain users&apos; trust after the scandal, it could start by expressing some genuine contrition.    "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w831] Facebook can still track you even if you delete your account — here’s how to stop it  								Facebook can still track you even if you delete your account — here’s how to stop it Published: 21.03.2018 Print eMail  Tweet  news Deleting your Facebook after finding out the data of 50 million people was leaked to Cambridge Analytica ? The company can still track and targets people who aren&apos;t even registered on the site via other settings on their phone and browser. Here&apos;s how to put a stop to it. 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w832] The #DeleteFacebook movement has reached a fever pitch, as former Facebook insiders turn on the company  "								"The #DeleteFacebook movement has reached a fever pitch, as former Facebook insiders turn on the company  "				"Things are getting worse for Facebook, as the WhatsApp cofounder Brian Acton jumped on the #DeleteFacebook bandwagon on Tuesday evening. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. (David Ramos/Getty Images)  news Amid Facebook&apos;s latest scandal, #DeleteFacebook is trending on Twitter. Brian Acton, the former Facebook executive who cofounded WhatsApp, added fuel to the already roaring fire on Tuesday night. ""It is time. #deletefacebook,"" he wrote . Pushback against the world&apos;s largest social network, Facebook, is growing. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook is trending . Lawmakers are investigating the company. Major executives like CEO Mark Zuckerberg and the chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg are pulling all-nighters trying to get ahead of the controversy. And, as the hashtag suggests, people are deleting their Facebook accounts . On Tuesday night, the former Facebook executive Brian Acton even jumped in . ""It is time. #deletefacebook,"" Acton, who cofounded WhatsApp, wrote on Twitter . The latest blowback against Facebook is part of the ongoing story regarding Facebook&apos;s role in the 2016 US presidential election. A whistle-blower who used to work for a company named Cambridge Analytica revealed in reports published last week that the company harvested the data of over 50 million Facebook users and used that data to help the Trump campaign target advertisements on Facebook . Christopher Wylie, the former Cambridge Analytica employee who is now the whistle-blower at the heart of Facebook&apos;s latest controversy. (Channel 4 News/YouTube) Facebook was aware years ago of the cache of user data that Cambridge Analytica had and asked the company to delete it — but Facebook never followed up or confirmed the deletion of the data, and it even allowed Cambridge Analytica to continue operating on Facebook until last week. And thus, Facebook users are walking away from Facebook. Celebrities are even getting in on it — on Wednesday, Jim Carrey tweeted out a drawing he made of Zuckerberg that featured a quote from a much younger Zuckerberg bragging about Facebook. He added ""#regulatefacebook"" to the image: — (@) 2018-03-21 16:09:00.0 Zuckerberg is expected to make a public statement on Wednesday. But with Acton&apos;s tweet, it may be too little, too late, as scrutiny is coming from even those most loyal to Facebook. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w833]																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w834] Actor Jim Carrey dumped his Facebook stock at exactly the right time Actor Jim Carrey dumped his Facebook stock at exactly the right time  				"Carrey tweeted on February 6 that he was dumping his Facebook shares because the company profited on Russian interference in US elections. null (Getty Images / Mario Tama)  news The actor Jim Carrey tweeted on February 6 that he was dumping his Facebook shares because the company profited from Russian interference in US elections. Facebook shares have fallen more than 9% over the past two sessions after news surfaced that Cambridge Analytica accessed data of more than 50 million users without their permission. Follow Facebook&apos;s stock in real time here . The actor Jim Carrey dumped his Facebook shares at exactly the right time. ""I&apos;m dumping my @ facebook stock and deleting my page because @ facebook profited from Russian interference in our elections and they&apos;re still not doing enough to stop it,"" Carrey tweeted on February 6. ""I encourage all other investors who care about our future to do the same. # unfriendfacebook ."" Facebook shares closed at $185.31 on February 6 but have fallen more than 9% this week to their lowest level since September following news over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica accessed data from 50 million users without their permission. The stock closed at $168.15 Tuesday. The sell-off in Facebook shares has been fast and furious. They have shed 9% in just two days, erasing roughly $50 billion in market cap . During the sell-off, Facebook has slipped one place in the rankings of the most valuable US companies, to sixth from fifth, and is now behind Warren Buffett&apos;s Berkshire Hathaway . Facebook shares are down another 1.35% ahead of Wednesday&apos;s opening bell. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																		
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w835] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w836] How Cambridge Analytica's Dan Mureşan died								 				"The minister's son was linked to Cambridge Analytica accused of influencing the 2017 Kenyan elections. The then Cord presidential candidate Raila Odinga (left) and Jubilee presidential candidate Uhuru Kenyatta wave to the crowd during the national fasting and peace prayers at Uhuru Park, Nairobi on February 24, 2013. Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Christopher Wylie has revealed that his predecessor Dan Mureşan, died while working for the 2013 Kenyan Presidential campaigns. (Nation Media Group)  news Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Christopher Wylie has revealed that his predecessor Dan Mureşan, died while working for the 2013 Kenyan Presidential campaigns. In an interview with co-hosted by the global Byline Investigates in London and the Frontline Club, a private members club in Britain, Wylie revealed that Mureşan was found dead in a Kenyan hotel room. The death resulted in the vacancy which Wylie filled at a British political consultancy firm linked to Cambridge Analytica,the controversial British data mining firm accused of influencing the 2017 Kenyan elections. Christopher Wylie, the 28-year-old whistleblower on Cambridge Analytica. Wylie has revealed that his predecessor Dan Mureşan, died while working for the 2013 Kenyan Presidential campaigns. (The Guardian) Mysterious death However, Wylie refused to state how Mureşan, the son of former Romania Agriculture Minister Ioan Avram Muresan died. “I did not know this at the time when I joined but my predecessor, he was working in Kenya for president Uhuru Kenyatta, and he was just found dead in a hotel room. That is why they had a vacancy. I can’t say he was murdered. He died in his hotel room.” Wylie stated. “The Romanian citizen was working with a British telecommunications company, being in Kenya for a while. He had not yet registered his presence on Kenyan territory with the Romanian diplomatic mission,” the Foreign ministry told Bucharest Herald in September 10, 2012. Influenced elections The latest revelations adds to the concerns on the role of the British firms and how it is alleged to have shaped Kenya&apos;s political scene. Alexander Nix, CEO, Cambridge Analytica during the expose by Channel 4 News. Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Christopher Wylie has revealed that his predecessor Dan Mureşan, died while working for the 2013 Kenyan Presidential campaigns. (BBC) NASA has asked both the US and UK Governments to open a full investigation against Cambridge Analytica after the explosive  exposé   by Channel 4 News which disclosed how it helped President Kenyatta during the 2017 General Election. Read Also: What NASA want US & UK to do after Cambridge Analytica confirmed working for Uhuru The firm is accused of using damaging information about politicians to push certain agenda to the electorates. The main purpose is to play with the citizenry’s emotions by either creating fear or wooing undecided voters towards a candidate. In response to the expose, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju denied that the party had sought any services from the controversial firm, terming the claims as far-fetched.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w837] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w838]    Psychology academic claims Facebook, Cambridge Analytica used him        Technology Psychology academic claims Facebook, Cambridge Analytica used him   An academic who created an app which harvested data from 50 million users says he has been made “a scapegoat” for Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. Dr Aleksandr Kogan completed work for Cambridge Analytica in 2014, but said he had no idea the data would be used to benefit Donald Trump’s campaign. The psychology academic said he wanted the data so he could model human behaviour through social media. Facebook says Dr Kogan violated the site’s policies. The Cambridge University researcher developed a personality survey called This is Your Digital Life. About 270,000 users’ data was collected, but the app also collected some public data from users’ friends. Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie said that, as a result, the data of about 50 million users was harvested for the analysis firm. Dr Kogan said he was “stunned” by the allegations made against him as he was advised the app was entirely legal. He said: “The events of the past week have been a total shell shock, and my view is that I’m being basically used as a scapegoat by both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica when… we thought we were doing something that was really normal.   “We were assured by Cambridge Analytica that everything was perfectly legal and within the terms of service.” The firm’s chief executive Alexander Nix – who was suspended on Tuesday -was secretly recorded in a Channel 4 investigation saying the London-based company ran Donald Trump’s digital campaign during the 2016 US election. He said that the work the company did, including research, analytics and targeted campaigning, allowed the Republican candidate to win with a narrow margin of “40,000 votes” in three states. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy,” he added. Cambridge Analytica denies doing anything wrong and on Monday said the executives had “entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios” in order to “play along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment”.   But Dr Kogan said the accuracy of the dataset had been “exaggerated” by Cambridge Analytica, and said the dataset was more likely to hurt Mr Trump’s campaign. A spokesperson for Facebook said the academic was not allowed to transfer data to Cambridge Analytica, a third-party who would use the set for commercial purposes. They added that sharing users’ friends data outside the app was also against Facebook’s fundamental principles. Dr Kogan said he was following advice given to him by Cambridge Analytica, and added he had “no reason to doubt” that was breaking any policy with Facebook. On Tuesday a Cambridge University spokesperson said they had “sought and received assurances” from Dr Kogan that no University data, resources or facilities were used for his work and they had found no evidence to contradict that, but were writing to Facebook to “request all relevant evidence in their possession”. Before Channel 4 News had broadcast any of the secret filming, Mr Nix told the BBC’s Newsnight programme he felt the firm had been “deliberately entrapped”.   There have now been calls for an investigation into the work Cambridge Analytica carried out during the 2013 election in Kenya. On Tuesday a parliamentary committee called for Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence about the use of personal data by Cambridge Analytica. Facebook has also denied any wrongdoing. Damian Collins, the chairman of the Commons inquiry into fake news, accused Facebook of previously “misleading” the committee, and said it was “now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process”. Facebook shares fell by a further 5% on Tuesday, following a 6.7% drop on Monday, meaning that in total, about $50bn has been wiped from its market value. The UK’s Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said she would be applying to court for a warrant to search the offices of Cambridge Analytica. The consumer watchdog the US Federal Trade Commission – which has the power to levy large fines – has also reportedly opened an investigation into Facebook. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w839] EDwin Sifuna asks Jubilee to come clean on Cambridge Analytica         Edwin Sifuna 								ODM issues new statement over Cambridge Analytica saga  				"New Development Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has solicited Jubilee Party to make a clean breast of the role of Cambridge Analytica during the campaign period. (Courtesy)  news Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has solicited Jubilee Party to make a clean breast of the role of Cambridge Analytica during the campaign period. The Raila led party through its Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said that in the political climate of reconciliation and dialogue Jubilee should lay bare what exactly the firm did for them. “We want our Jubilee counterparts to come clean on the role Cambridge Analytica played in their campaigns so that we can openly deal with the rifts created by these political mercenaries on the fabric of Kenyan society,” Mr Sifuna said in the statement. Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has solicited Jubilee Party to make a clean breast of the role of Cambridge Analytica during the campaign period. (Courtesy)   Moving forward the NASA politician recommended that the involvement of foreign firms  be abolished through legislation so as to avoid similar cases in future. Sifuna gained interest and concern on the issue following the news that was aired on Channel 4 news that showed officials of Cambridge Analytica boasting how they ‘secured’ Uhuru’s position as president in the controversial polls. We saw very distasteful propaganda and fear-mongering directed at stoking ethnic animosity against Mr Odinga during thecampaigns, a dangerous adventure given existing ethnic fissures in Kenya,"" Mr Sifuna further asserted  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w840]   Speaking to Capital FM News, Jubilee Vice-Chairman David Murathe said they never dealt directly with Cambridge Analytica with the extent of their engagement being through an affiliated company he identified as SCL/FILE ,  The ruling Jubilee Party has dismissed claims by a representative of the now infamous Cambridge Analytica that they “stage-managed” President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election in 2013 and 2017. Speaking to Capital FM News, Jubilee Vice-Chairman David Murathe said they never dealt directly with Cambridge Analytica with the extent of their engagement being through an affiliated company he identified as SCL. /7965891/004/0044 news-ad “There’s nothing there,” Murathe said. “We engaged the services of several marketing companies. All they (SCL) did for us was branding; billboards, T-shirts and the like. They had no involvement in our social media campaign.” Their main Opposition in both polls however remains unconvinced with the head of the National Super Alliance Secretariat Norman Magaya viewing it as proof of their claims that Jubilee employed underhand tactics to steal victory both times. “The UK and US ambassador finally can wake-up to this reality and apologise to Kenyans. These are issues we raised with them. We wrote to the EU observer missions about the role of Cambridge Analytica in the Kenyan election,” Magaya said in an interview on KTN News. An expose aired by Channel 4 News in the United Kingdom, includes hidden camera footage of company Executive Mark Turnbull stating: “The Kenyatta campaign which we ran in 2013 and 2017… we have rebranded the entire party twice, written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys… research, analysis, messaging, then we’d write all the speeches and we’d stage the whole thing; so just about every element of his campaign.” The UK-based firm is accused of generating and disseminating propaganda online in Kenya’s elections in an effort to get President Kenyatta elected. A tactic, Magaya said, made all the more deplorable by its intent to inflame already heightened ethnic tensions and one which could have very well pushed Kenya off the precipice. In the Channel 4 News expose however, Turnbull unabashedly promoted strategies that prey on people’s fears stating “elections are not won on facts.” Magaya therefore said the coalition had constituted a legal team of five to work together with its IT experts to determine the extent of Cambridge Analytica’s role in the elections and inform what legal action, if any, they should take. “Remember that we did an extensive study of the electronic results transmission system between August and December last year with our IT team; so we’re having the two teams sit together with a view that will be able to present a report by the end of the week.” The Opposition has also made the case for restrictions to be placed on the role “foreign political mercenaries” can play in Kenya’s elections. “In order to protect our nascent democracy from such Foreign Political Mercenaries it may be desirable to curtail or ban, through legislation, their involvement in our politics,” the Orange Democratic Movement’s Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said in a statement. Cambridge Analytica is under investigation in the US and UK for the role it played in getting US President Donald Trump elected; having been suspended by Facebook for unauthorized access to users’ data. And though it has publicly denied engineering and mounting a propaganda campaign against Raila Odinga – President Kenyatta’s main competitor in the 2013 and 2017 presidential elections – Turnbull did make the following revelation in the Channel 4 News expose: “It has to happen without anyone thinking that’s propaganda because the moment you think that’s propaganda, the next question is who’s put that out. So we have to be very subtle. It may be that we have to contract under a different name so that no record exists with our name attached to this at all.” "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w841]  		"Analytica: Journalist John Allan Namu speaks out on alleged links to Uhuru campaigns  Renowned Kenyan journalist John Allan Namu found himself fending claims linking him to British data firm Cambridge Analytica and President Uhuru Kenyatta re-election campaign. In a riposte on Twitter, the journalist denied claims that his media company, Africa Uncensored, was hired by Cambridge Analytica to work in President Kenyatta’s campaign in the 2017 presidential election. My attention has been drawn to comments online alleging that Africa Uncensored, the company I co-founded, was contracted by Cambridge Analytica to work on the Jubilee campaign. – @johnallannamu — Africa Uncensored (@AfUncensored) March 21, 2018 Our alleged role is being linked to our own coverage of the 2017 electioneering period; specifically, our decision to tally results of the Presidential election in the nullified August poll, and the October 26th poll which was boycotted by opposition candidate, Raila Odinga. — Africa Uncensored (@AfUncensored) March 21, 2018 Cambridge Analytica executives have confessed they worked for the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta behind the scenes. Mark Turnbull, the managing director, said they engineered a digital campaign that painted Mr Kenyatta in positive light while smearing his main rival Raila Odinga. The smear campaign against Mr Odinga, which featured apocalyptic scenes, had one strong message: “Stop Raila Save Kenya…….The Future of Kenya is in Your Hands.” Journalist John Allan Namu said the alleged links to Analytica are false and meant to defame his company. 1. We are not related in any way, nor have we worked with or ever intend to work with Cambridge Analytica, any of its local partners if they exist, or indeed any firm whose tactics are clearly meant to harm the public interest. — Africa Uncensored (@AfUncensored) March 21, 2018 My track-record as a journalist, my own personal convictions and my belief in the ethics of journalism would not allow me to consider, much less participate in actions that would harm Kenyans. – @johnallannamu "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																				
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w842] Jubilee Party confirms working with British firm accused of helping Uhuru win 2013/17 elections     																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w843] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w844]     Eliminating corruption in Africa is a tall order for anyone seeking to do so     National Anti-Corruption Campaign Steering Committee member Francis Ng'ang'a addresses the press in Kisumu on March 05, 2018 over corruption. [Photo by Denish Ochieng/Standard] The existence of an African Parliamentarians Network against Corruption (APNAC) is one of the bad jokes in Africa. Of course, it is a pun that dates back to 1999 when it was conceived as a noble cause by Westerners for Africans, except that the latter's perspective on corruption is totally different. It astounds that our National Assembly Speaker, Justin Muturi, while presiding over the parliament should promise to end corruption in Africa and improve the living standards of the continent’s indigent after being elected President of APNAC. African countries have the pride of place in the top ranks of corruption worldwide. Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index, having ranked 180 countries in 2017 on a scale of 0 - 100, gave African countries a mean score of 32. Corruption is a way of life in Africa, and those perfecting it are its leaders. They have no reason to fight corruption when they are the biggest beneficiaries. The struggle for representative slots in parliament is often fierce; a no-holds-barred brawl in which contestants bankrupt themselves buoyed by the knowledge that loses can be recouped upon victory. The motivation for seeking legislative positions is, primarily, the monetary rewards that come with the office, and our MPs have proven it countless times. Financially unstable Members of Parliament are a risk to society. Parliament cannot be trusted to conduct its business in an objective, non-partisan manner when most MPs are merely putty in the hands of wheeler dealers. Wrong priorities Rarely do Africa’s parliamentarians ventilate on issues that impact positively on the populace. Locally, runaway inflation, a rogue executive that has its priorities wrong, excessive government borrowing of billions of shillings to pump into infrastructure while millions of Kenyans are threatened by food shortages; while millions of children go hungry every day and miss schooling because of poverty have never been the concern of our parliamentarians in their pursuit of self-aggrandisement.  In 2015, the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament came under scrutiny after being labelled corrupt. It was alleged that at the behest of unscrupulous power brokers and businessmen under the sobriquet ‘cartels’, committee members regularly took bribes to influence decisions of the House. For the consideration of kickbacks, individual MPs are said to take inducements to bring motions to the house that seek to benefit specific individuals. While not necessarily part of the scheme, I have never understood why Members of Parliament spent time - and even got paid allowances - to deliberate and declare that a loaf of bread should weigh 400 grams, down from 500 grams. Quite petty if you ask me. Wheeler dealers seeking lucrative government tenders need not look past nearly broke, over ambitious legislators to actualise their dreams. Revelations are now coming out of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on matters of graft that parliament cannot exonerate itself from. Already, too much power has been vested in parliament. Our parliament, as many across Africa, has become the theatre of the absurd where personal scores are settled, mediocrity and sycophancy rewarded. Parliament is the hallowed place where constitutional provisions, otherwise to be jealously safeguarded, are trashed for political expediency. Parliament is the place where political party ideologies play out, where numerical strength, rather objectivity, count for anything. There is no ideological convergence point for legislators except when they unanimously resolve to dip their sticky fingers in the public till. They will fight as a united team to have control of the Constituency Development Fund (CDF). They complain to a man about poor coffee and bad food in their cafeteria at parliament, completely oblivious that to millions of Kenyans, what they complain about is a luxury. MPs are united and vocal in their endeavours to pad their salaries and allowances, yet suffer amnesia when doctors, nurses, teachers and the police; those who do the donkey work in moving this fatigued country forward demand modest pay raises. Not a single MP has protested the slashing of police officers’ salaries, but they nearly lynched Sarah Serem, former Chairperson of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for suggesting a little cut in their salaries. Parliamentarians would rather connive to make false mileage and sitting allowance claims than sit down to fix electoral laws and an electoral commission that are the source of the misery in Kenya today. Revelations about Cambridge Analytica and the admission of mischief at IEBC play into the Opposition's claims Jubilee did not win the August and October 2017 presidential elections. The world over, politicians are ranked the most corrupt, only a step ahead of the police. The million dollar question is; if Mr Muturi cannot tame Kenya’s rogue parliamentarians, how does he hope to make Africa corruption free? In reality, APNAC is a white elephant. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w845]     US firm behind Uhuru, Raila propaganda videos    President Uhuru Kenyatta with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga when they addressed the media at Harambee House, Nairobi. [Photo/Standard] Two campaign videos that were circulating before the August 8 Presidential polls have been traced to an American firm. The Texas-based Harris Media produced and anonymously circulated one video targeting Raila Odinga titled The Real Raila and another backing President Uhuru Kenyatta tiled Uhuru for Us. This is the first time that the two videos posted just two weeks to the elections have been linked to the firm. According to UK-based Privacy International (PI), Harris Media worked on The Real Raila video that sought to portray the Opposition leader as 'a dangerous, racist xenophobe with promoting his tribe and family as his primary political aim'. The Real Raila and another site that links back to Uhuru for Us share an IP address with Harris Media’s own website and over 30 conservative campaigns,” reports PI. Uhuru for Us promoted the achievements of the President and went on make a case for his election for another term in office. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Horrific images Horrific images, drawn mostly from the 2007/2008 post-election violence, were used in The Real Raila video to discreetly link the Opposition leader to Kenya’s violent past. The videos targeted specific audiences depending on political affiliation, suggesting the Harris Media might have harvested personal information such as ethnicity and sex to profile potential voters. The firm is on the spot for polarising messages sent out to unsuspecting users of social media platforms, including Facebook. Online profiles enabled the firm to run a data-driven dirty campaign though faceless forces which could not be traced back to anyone, frustrating agencies tasked with fighting hate. The videos From the videos, Harris Media has elaborate information about Kenyans from browsing history, location, online friends, or how frequently they charged phone batteries. It then used the data to infer additional, unknown information such as gender, personality, preferred candidate, emotional state, and sexual orientation. “This is then used to create a profile of you. The profile is used to selectively target custom audiences with shiny, sometimes bespoke political ads,” PI reported. The firm also used a digital technique that ensured that their content always came up at the top when specific words were sought in search engines such as Google. The Real Raila came top in search results to words such as violence or Raila. A search of the words president and Uhuru redirected users to the Uhuru for Us website. Revelations about the involvement of Harris Media come to light amid global concern about the dirty tricks employed by British firm Cambridge Analytica (CA), which played a major role in two presidential elections in Kenya. Chris Wylie, the whistleblower in the emerging scandal, added a new twist to the saga, revealing that he got a job at CA after the death of Romanian Dan Muresan, a CA employee, in 2012. Presidential campaign Wylie told international media outlets that Muresan’s body was found in his hotel room in Nairobi, where he was working for President Uhuru's campaign. There has been little information about the death. Julia Pataki, the Romanian ambassador to Kenya, told The Standard that the family of the political strategist did not want the cause of his death to be made public. “He was an only child and we shall respect the wishes for privacy of his mother and fiancée, who came to collect the body,” Ms Pataki said. She did not name the hotel Muresan’s body was found or whether police ever investigated the death. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w846]   Cambridge Analytica scandal: legitimate researchers using Facebook data could be collateral damage 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w847]   ‘It’s time to delete your Facebook’, says WhatsApp co-founder; here’s the reason behind his comment "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w848]   WhatsApp Co-founder Brian Acton joins the #deletefacebook movement 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w849]  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w850]  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w851]  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w852]  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w853]    The power players behind Cambridge Analytica have set up a mysterious new data company Nick Ayers, chief of staff to Mike Pence, and Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway with Rebekah Mercer (right) at Trump Tower in 2016. source Drew Angerer/Getty Images The power players behind Cambridge Analytica have set up a new company – and the daughters of Donald Trump-supporting billionaire Robert Mercer have just joined as directors. Rebekah and Jennifer Mercer joined Emerdata on March 16, but it is shrouded in mystery. Alexander Nix, the suspended CEO of Cambridge Analytica, is also a director, as well as other executives from parent firm SCL Group. Emerdata also lists Johnson Chun Shun Ko, a Chinese executive from Frontier Services Group, the military firm chaired by prominent Trump supporter Erik Prince. Cambridge Analytica is under scrutiny for the role it played in the US election after The Observer revealed the firm had illegitimately hoovered up Facebook user data. Rebekah and Jennifer Mercer, daughters of hedge fund tycoon Robert Mercer, have just joined the board of a mysterious new company set up by executives at scandal-hit political research firm Cambridge Analytica. According to public filings at Britain’s Companies House, Emerdata was incorporated in August 2017 and the Mercers were appointed to its board on March 16 this year. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg  caption The Companies House filing. source Business Insider Cambridge Analytica’s now-suspended chief executive , Alexander Nix, is also listed as a director, as is Julian Wheatland, chairman of Cambridge Analytica parent firm SCL Group. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg The filings show Wheatland set up Emerdata along with Cambridge Analytica’s chief data officer, Alexander Tayler. Nix’s role in Emerdata is unclear given he has been suspended from Cambridge Analytica. A spokesman did not respond to a request for comment. It isn’t clear what Emerdata does, though the company is listed under “data processing, hosting, and related activities.” It shares an address in Canary Wharf with Cambridge Analytica’s parent, SCL Group. Emerdata is connected to controversial Trump supporter Erik Prince Another notable company director is Johnson Chun Shun Ko, the deputy chairman of Frontier Services Group. Frontier is a private security firm which mostly operates in Africa and is currently chaired by US businessman and prominent Trump supporter Erik Prince . Prince is best known for founding private military group Blackwater US and is the brother of US education secretary Betsy DeVos. Prince also donated to the Make America Number 1 PAC , a Mercer-funded group that supported Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. Make America Number 1 paid Cambridge Analytica $1.5 million in 2015 and 2016. During undercover filming by Britain’s Channel 4 News, CA executives revealed how Make America Number 1 was used to seed online attack ads against Hillary Clinton. The appointments indicate the strong ties between the Mercer family and Cambridge Analytica. Robert Mercer is the primary funder for Cambridge Analytica, and was also a major backer of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign through the Make America Number 1 PAC. He’s also the major funder behind controversial right-wing news site Breitbart. Breitbart’s former executive chairman and former White House advisor, Steve Bannon, once sat on the board of Cambridge Analytica. Trump’s team once appointed Cambridge Analytica to run its digital campaign – something the firm boasted about in secret recordings taken by Channel 4 . According to Politico, the Trump camp is now trying to distance itself from the company following revelations that it misused millions of Facebook users’ information , plus incriminating undercover recordings which show the executives boasting of their ability to manipulate elections and even blackmail political opponents . Nix was suspended from his role late on Tuesday after the recordings aired on Channel 4. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w854] 'Mukhriz used data firm's services'  Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir had used the services of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica to help in the 13th General Election (GE13) campaign, said his former press secretary, Azrin Zizal. He refuted claims from the former Kedah menteri besar that he never used the services of the analytics firm, Azrin said he was willing to provide proof if Mukhriz continued to deny the truth. It was reported that Mukhriz had denied using the services of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica to help in the election campaign during GE13. Azrin was SCL Southeast Asia head, which is a sister company of Cambridge Analytica. In a statement yesterday, he said Mukhriz’s statement about Cambridge Analytica’s advice for the Kedah campaign in 2013 contained outright lies. “Mukhriz said I was only his media officer until 2013 and that I was no longer with him when he became Kedah menteri besar, but this is absolutely false. react-empty: 25 Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir had used the services of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica to help in the 13th General Election (GE13) campaign, said his former press secretary, Azrin Zizal. Pic by STR/ADZLAN SIDEK “I worked for Mukhriz personally and provided communications and strategy advice for him until 2015, including during GE13, and afterwards when he was menteri besar. “While Mukhriz continues to deny my work for him and deny the benefits he gained from the advice I provided to him from Cambridge Analytica/SCL Group for Kedah during GE13, will he also deny Kedah winning an extra six parliamentary seats, winning over the state and him becoming menteri besar?” he asked. Azrin also refuted claims by Mukhriz that Cambridge Analytica had worked for Barisan Nasional. “This is not true. Cambridge Analytica or SCL Group never worked for or was paid by BN or any part of the Malaysia government. “The GE13 advice for Kedah was provided to Mukhriz personally. It is time for Mukhriz to stop deliberately distorting the facts to save himself, and come clean,” he added. The Prime Minister’s Office on Tuesday issued a statement stating that it had never engaged controversial data firm Cambridge Analytica for its services in GE13. The statement said that a representative from Cambridge Analytica’s parent company SCL Group earlier confirmed that it had personally provided its advice to then-Kedah Umno chief and now Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (PPBM) deputy president Mukhriz. “Neither Cambridge Analytica nor its parent company SCL Group have ever — now or in the past — been contracted, employed or paid in any way by BN, the Prime Minister’s Office or any part of the Malaysian government,” the statement read. “The SCL representative also confirmed that he reported directly to Mukhriz, not BN or the government,” it said. The company’s website lists five office locations in New York, Washington DC, both in the United States, London in Britain, Brazil and Malaysia. Meanwhile, Mukhriz in his Twitter account on Tuesday denied that he had any contact with Cambridge Analytica. “I categorically deny any contact with @CamAnalytica at any time. “Azrin was my media officer 2009-2013 at MITI ( International Trade and Industry Ministry). “He was not employed by me as representative of SCL Group or Cambridge Analytica, and he was no longer my media officer when I became Kedah menteri besar,” he said. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w855] Mukhriz lying; was using Cambridge Analytica services for GE13: Former aide  Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir had used the services of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica to help in the 13th General Election (GE13) campaign, said his former press secretary, Azrin Zizal. He refuted claims from the former Kedah menteri besar that he never used the services of the analytics firm, Azrin said he was willing to provide proof if Mukhriz continued to deny the truth. It was reported that Mukhriz had denied using the services of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica to help in the election campaign during GE13. Azrin was SCL Southeast Asia head, which is a sister company of Cambridge Analytica. In a statement yesterday, he said Mukhriz’s statement about Cambridge Analytica’s advice for the Kedah campaign in 2013 contained outright lies. “Mukhriz said I was only his media officer until 2013 and that I was no longer with him when he became Kedah menteri besar, but this is absolutely false. react-empty: 25 Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir had used the services of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica to help in the 13th General Election (GE13) campaign, said his former press secretary, Azrin Zizal. Pic by STR/ADZLAN SIDEK “I worked for Mukhriz personally and provided communications and strategy advice for him until 2015, including during GE13, and afterwards when he was menteri besar. “While Mukhriz continues to deny my work for him and deny the benefits he gained from the advice I provided to him from Cambridge Analytica/SCL Group for Kedah during GE13, will he also deny Kedah winning an extra six parliamentary seats, winning over the state and him becoming menteri besar?” he asked. Azrin also refuted claims by Mukhriz that Cambridge Analytica had worked for Barisan Nasional. “This is not true. Cambridge Analytica or SCL Group never worked for or was paid by BN or any part of the Malaysia government. “The GE13 advice for Kedah was provided to Mukhriz personally. It is time for Mukhriz to stop deliberately distorting the facts to save himself, and come clean,” he added. The Prime Minister’s Office on Tuesday issued a statement stating that it had never engaged controversial data firm Cambridge Analytica for its services in GE13. The statement said that a representative from Cambridge Analytica’s parent company SCL Group earlier confirmed that it had personally provided its advice to then-Kedah Umno chief and now Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (PPBM) deputy president Mukhriz. “Neither Cambridge Analytica nor its parent company SCL Group have ever — now or in the past — been contracted, employed or paid in any way by BN, the Prime Minister’s Office or any part of the Malaysian government,” the statement read. “The SCL representative also confirmed that he reported directly to Mukhriz, not BN or the government,” it said. The company’s website lists five office locations in New York, Washington DC, both in the United States, London in Britain, Brazil and Malaysia. Meanwhile, Mukhriz in his Twitter account on Tuesday denied that he had any contact with Cambridge Analytica. “I categorically deny any contact with @CamAnalytica at any time. “Azrin was my media officer 2009-2013 at MITI ( International Trade and Industry Ministry). “He was not employed by me as representative of SCL Group or Cambridge Analytica, and he was no longer my media officer when I became Kedah menteri besar,” he said. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w856]   What you need to know about Facebook's data debacle    Facebook is facing a joint investigation by The New York Times and the UK's Observer newspaper found possible violations of Facebook policies by Cambridge Analytica, one of the Trump campaign's data firms  What happens to the data you post on Facebook? And who's responsible for how those personal details are used? Facebook is under intense pressure to answer these questions — and more — after it admitted that a company linked to President Donald Trump's campaign had accessed and improperly stored a huge trove of its user data. The controversy erupted as UK media and The New York Times reported that data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica tried to influence how Americans voted using information gleaned from millions of Facebook profiles. Here's what you need to know. What happened? Facebook said it gave permission to University of Cambridge psychology professor Aleksandr Kogan to harvest information from users who downloaded his app — ""thisisyourdigitallife."" The app offered a personality test. But Facebook users who downloaded the app also gave the professor permission to collect data on their location, their friends and content they had ""liked."" That was allowed under Facebook's rules at the time. The New York Times , however, reported that Kogan provided that data — which included information from over 50 million profiles — to Cambridge Analytica, breaching Facebook's rules. Tell us: Are you planning to quit Facebook? Why or why not? Cambridge Analytica was working to develop techniques that could be used to influence voters. Facebook said it asked Cambridge Analytica to delete the data in 2015, but learned several days ago from ""reports"" that not all of it had been purged. Cambridge Analytica said that the data set revealed by The New York Times was not used ""as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign."" The company's methods came under further scrutiny late Monday after a British television channel aired a report showing CEO Alexander Nix discussing potential bribery and entrapment of politicians. In the report, Nix is seen suggesting the encounters could be filmed and posted to the internet. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that the undercover Channel 4 report was ""edited and scripted to grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how the company conducts its business."" Nix said the company does not engage in bribery or entrapment. Related: Facebook is facing an existential crisis Why does this matter? Facebook has been unable to shake off questions over its role in the 2016 presidential election. CEO Mark Zuckerberg initially expressed skepticism that Facebook could have been used to influence voters, but a series of revelations over Russian meddling have caused the company to make big changes in recent months. It has sought to crack down on fake news, undermine the business model used by trolls and make political advertising more transparent. Related: Former Cambridge Analytica contractor: 'I'm not out to get Facebook' Zuckerberg now has a whole new set of questions to address: Was Facebook transparent enough with users about how their information would be used? Should it have done more to keep tabs on how third parties were using data? There could be major implications for the company's business model, which is based on selling user data to app developers and advertisers. Lawmakers and regulators have already seized on the controversy. Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey said Saturday that her office is opening an investigation into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. The UK Information Commissioner's Office is also investigating, as is the European Union parliament. ""This is a big deal. ... The privacy violations there are significant,"" Republican Senator Jeff Flake told CNN. ""The question is, who knew it? When did they know it? How long did this go on?"" Facebook's stock has been pummeled amid the fiasco . The shares tumbled nearly 7% Monday, shaving about $37 billion off the value of the company. What happens next? Lawmakers have called on Zuckerberg to explain his company's actions. Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat who serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said on Saturday that ""Zuckerberg needs to testify."" ""This is a major breach that must be investigated,"" she said on Twitter. ""It's clear these platforms can't police themselves."" Related: Facebook's value plunges $37 billion The UK's Information Commissioner's Office said Monday that it was trying to obtain a warrant to search the offices of Cambridge Analytica in London. Facebook also said that Cambridge Analytica had agreed to a digital forensic audit  of its servers and systems in an attempt to show that it deleted certain Facebook data it held on some American users. Auditors hired by Facebook visited Cambridge Analytica's London office on Monday evening, but stood down at the request of the Information Commissioner's Office. Related: Mark Zuckerberg under fire over data controversy The revelations are likely to fuel calls for more regulation of tech companies. The industry is already scrambling to prepare for tough new data privacy rules in Europe, and similar measures could be considered elsewhere. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w857]  Why Facebook will ride out the data leak scandal 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w858] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w859] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w860] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w861]    Facebook / Cambridge Analytica: How revoke access to third party apps 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w862]   It should come as no surprise really. We’ve all known for a long time that whatever we put on social media is being used for targeted advertising. And yet, when the news broke that the data of 50 million Facebook users was taken without their knowledge , and used for psychological manipulation, we were horrified. Well, some of us. How did it happen? Why did Facebook not protect us? In 2014, the voter-profiling company Cambridge Analytica was looking to up its game and get a contract to work on the US election campaign. In order to get more accurate profiles of potential voters, it needed more data. And where better to go than Facebook with its billion users? The company offered users money to take a personality quiz on Facebook, called “thisisyourdigitallife”, the same kind of third-party app so many of my friends use to determine their Hobbit name or to see what they’d look like as someone of a different gender. About 270,000 people installed the app, which then “scraped” information from their Facebook profiles, as well as detailed information from their friends’ profiles, their friends who did NOT give permission. READ:  App developer says he is scapegoat in Facebook scandal It accessed the profiles of about 50 million people. Of the 50 million, about 30 million contained the kind of personal information Cambridge Analytica was dying to lay its hands on.  The research showed the company could extract the following psychometric information from your Facebook posts: fair-mindedness, conscientiousness, political views, self-disclosure, and “sensational interests” which include militarism (whether you like weapons including guns), violent occultism (drugs, black magic), intellectual activities (music, travel, interest in the environment), credulousness (the paranormal, aliens), wholesome interests (camping, gardening, hiking). Once this data is accumulated, it can be used to predict things like where a politician should go to campaign, where he or she would be well-received, what to say to appeal to certain groups of people. This is insidious psychological manipulation of the most frightening and sickening kind. READ:  India warns against social media data misuse ahead of elections As New York Times writer, Zeynep Tufekci, explains, there is no way for someone to consent to something like this in a meaningful way. Most people don't realise exactly what they're consenting to. “Let’s assume, for the sake of argument, that you had explicitly consented to turn over your Facebook data to another company. Do you keep up with the latest academic research on computational inference? Did you know that algorithms now do a pretty good job of inferring a person’s personality traits, sexual orientation, political views, mental health status, substance abuse history and more just from his or her Facebook ‘likes’ — and that there are new applications of this data being discovered every day? “Given this confusing and rapidly changing state of affairs about what the data may reveal and how it may be used, consent to ongoing and extensive data collection can be neither fully informed nor truly consensual — especially since it is practically irrevocable (emphasis added).” South Africans shouldn’t be complacent and think this is limited to the Trump election campaign or the Brexit referendum. Cambridge Analytica also helped Uhuru Kenyatta win yet another term in Kenya’s 2017 presidential election. What’s to prevent Cambridge Analytica, or another company, from pulling the same trick during the 2019 elections campaign here in South Africa? So, how do we protect ourselves? You could leave Facebook completely. But if that seems too extreme, the first step would be to stop doing these silly tests and quizzes, giving third parties access to your and your friends’ private information. But what about the ones that are currently harvesting your data? Facebook does allow you to stop third parties from accessing your data completely by blocking all such apps. Note, this will stop apps and games from Farmville to Instagram, and you won’t be able to log into any sites using your Facebook login details (which is a silly security risk anyway). To do this go to the ""Settings"" menu on Facebook and click on “Apps”. From there, click the ""Edit"" button under ""Apps, Websites and Plugins.""  Click ""Disable Platform."" If you’d still like some apps to be able to access your information, like Instagram, or there are some apps, like a news website, you still want to use, you can click the edit icon for each third-party app that and untick the information you don't want it to have.  You can also stop your friends' apps from gaining access to your information. From the same page, click ""Edit"" under ""Apps Others Use."" Then uncheck the information you're not willing to share.  During this process, I discovered a bunch of apps I barely remember giving permission to when I first joined Facebook, and I simply deleted them completely.  Cambridge Analytica is now under investigation in the UK and the US, while authorities are also calling on Facebook to be held accountable as well. Cambridge Analytica might have gained the Facebook data through dubious means, but Facebook never checked the assertion that the information was going to be used for academic research only. What this saga proves is that Silicon Valley does not care about you, no matter what Mark Zuckerberg might say. We, the users, should not fool ourselves into thinking we are Facebook’s customers; we are its product and advertisers (and unscrupulous third-party companies) are its clients. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w863]																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w864]     How to change your Facebook settings to opt out of platform API sharing   You shouldn’t have to do this. You shouldn’t have to wade through complicated privacy settings in order to ensure that the companies with which you’ve entrusted your personal information are making reasonable, legal efforts to protect it. But Facebook has allowed third parties to violate user privacy on an unprecedented scale, and, while legislators and regulators scramble to understand the implications and put limits in place, users are left with the responsibility to make sure their profiles are properly configured. Over the weekend, it became clear that Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics company, got access to  more than 50 million Facebook users’ data  in 2014. The data was overwhelmingly collected, shared, and stored without user consent. The scale of this violation of user privacy reflects how Facebook’s terms of service and API were structured  at the time . Make no mistake: this was  not a data breach . This was exactly how Facebook’s infrastructure was designed to work. In addition to raising questions about Facebook’s role in the 2016 presidential election, this news is a reminder of the inevitable privacy risks that users face when their personal information is captured, analyzed, indefinitely stored, and shared by a constellation of data brokers, marketers, and social media companies. Tech companies can and should do more to protect users, including giving users far more control over what data is collected and how that data is used. That starts with meaningful transparency and allowing truly independent researchers—with no bottom line or corporate interest—access to work with, black-box test, and audit their systems. Finally, users need to be able to leave when a platform isn’t serving them — and take their data with them when they do. Of course, you could choose to leave Facebook entirely, but for many that is not a viable solution. For now, if you’d like keep your data from going through Facebook’s API, you can take control of your privacy settings. Keep in mind that this disables ALL platform apps (like Farmville, Twitter, or Instagram) and you will not be able to log into sites using your Facebook login. Log into Facebook and visit the  App Settings  page (or go there manually via the  Settings   Menu  >  Apps  ). From there, click the “ Edit ” button under “ Apps, Websites and Plugins .” Click “ Disable Platform .” If disabling platform entirely is too much, there is another setting that can help: limiting the personal information accessible by apps that others use. By default, other people who can see your info can bring it with them when they use apps, and your info becomes available to those apps. You can limit this as follows. From the same page, click “ Edit ” under “ Apps Others Use .” Then uncheck the types of information that you don’t want others’ apps to be able to access. For most people reading this post, that will mean unchecking every category. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w865] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w866] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w867] Most Facebook users believe Facebook will have a negative impact on society within 10 years  								"Most Facebook users believe Facebook will have a negative impact on society within 10 years  After remaining silent for days, Mark Zuckerberg finally addressed Cambridge Analytica&apos;s data breach in accessing Facebook users&apos; personal information. Facebook&apos;s oversight has launched an outpouring of criticism from leaders in the tech community, as well as mistrust from the platform&apos;s users. However, this isn&apos;t the first time Facebook has faced skepticism in recent months. A December poll from CB Insights reveals that the majority of Facebook users feel that the site will negatively impact society within the next 10 years. As this chart by Statista shows , more people have feelings of antipathy towards Facebook than they do towards Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Apple combined.    "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w868]   Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended over misuse of Facebook data  Embattled CEO Alexander Nix has been suspended by the board of data mining firm Cambridge Analytica for misuse of information. His suspension is coming after accusations that the firm misused information from up to 50 million Facebook accounts. The board said that secretly recorded comments Nix had made in a report by the U.K.’s Channel 4 “and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation.” Read also: RUSSIA: Putin re-elected in land slide win The suspension is coming days after a former employee of the firm accused his former employers of mishandling the personal information of more than 50 million Facebook users in an effort to help Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge Analytica and worked there until late 2014, told ABC News the company would use the information, including Facebook users’ hometowns, friends and “likes” to influence the behaviour of potential voters. Four days ago, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica, a data-analysis firm that worked for the Trump campaign, while it investigates whether the company held onto improperly obtained user data after telling Facebook it had deleted the information. The social network said in a blog post that the firm violated its policies by receiving user data from a Facebook app created by a University of Cambridge professor.   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w869] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w872] Mark Zuckerberg apologizes for data breach, says ready to testify before Congress "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w873]   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Cambridge Analytica scam: ‘If we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you’          Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Cambridge Analytica scam: ‘If we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you’      																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w874] Mark Zuckerberg apologizes for data breach, talks elections  Mark Zuckerberg finally apologizes and says he's 'happy' to testify before Congress  Zuckerberg to Congress? Facebook Regulations Zuckerberg opens up about Facebook’s role in elections in America and around the world. Facebook’s Role In Elections Anderson Cooper 360   airs weekdays at 8 p.m. on CNN . Check out the South Park spoof on Mark Zuckerberg and fake news: "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w875]    Netizens point out that potential PAP candidate is Facebook senior executive as FB posts mysteriously disappear     Netizens point out that potential PAP candidate is Facebook senior executive as FB posts mysteriously disappear      Some netizens have pointed out that one of several hopefuls tipped to be fielded as a People’s Action Party candidate in the next General Election is a top executive at social media giant, Facebook. This emphasis comes on the heels of the massive Facebook data breach in the US that is allegedly linked to partisan politics. The potential candidate netizens are zero-ing in on is 37-year-old Alvin Tan, who serves as head of public policy (South-east Asia) at Facebook. The Straits Times identified him as one of 200 potential candidates who may be fielded as ruling party candidates in the next General Election. Although the report was published in December last year, it was shared with increased fervour recently: On Facebook and elections, and staying in power. http://www.straitstimes.com/politics/pap-identifies-200-hopefuls-for-next-ge Posted by Roy Yi Ling on  Wednesday, 21 March 2018 Mr Alvin Tan, 37, head of public policy (South-east Asia), at social media giant Facebook is the 2nd person from the… Posted by Gilbert Louis on  Tuesday, 20 March 2018 A generated by theme end A   Such posts noticing Tan’s post with Facebook and his link to the ruling party come as allegations that Facebook posts have been mysteriously disappearing without notification have been floating online. In a notable case recently, a Facebook post that was published on 7 Mar on the contrast between parliamentarians in the UK and Singapore mysteriously disappeared two days after it was posted. The post’s writer, Chairman and CEO of Rafflesia Holdings Pte Ltd Mr Mano Sabnani, said that the post – which compared British Minister Lord Michael Bates with local opposition MP Sylvia Lim – had received 350 reactions, 155 comments and was shared 650 times before it was taken down without explanation. Netizens’ concerns that social media websites can be used for political ends come as news broke last weekend that a data firm with ties to US politicians Ted Cruz and Donald Trump reportedly accessed information from about 50 million Facebook users without their knowledge nor authorisation. The data harvest occurred as around 270,000 people took a personality quiz online that gave a Cambridge University professor access to their data and their Facebook friends’ data. This information, which was initially collected for academic purposes according to Facebook, was later transferred to third parties in violation of Facebook policies. One such third party who received this data was Cambridge Analytica, a firm which worked on Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. The firm, which is known for exploring the usage of data to create “psychographics” in the electoral process, has asserted that it was misled as to what the source of the data was. The firm also denied that the data that it received was used for Trump’s campaign. Despite this, Facebook has taken issue with the fact that parties such as the data firm still possess the information that was harvested through the personality quiz. It has suspended Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, Strategic Communication Laboratories, and is working with regulators to investigate the massive data breach. I want to share an update on the Cambridge Analytica situation — including the steps we've already taken and our next… Posted by Mark Zuckerberg on  Wednesday, 21 March 2018 Nevertheless, the scandal has caused Facebook’s stock price to take a plunge earlier this week, with nearly $50 billion being wiped away from the social media giant’s stock price. The company is also facing lawsuits from investors and website users even as a “delete Facebook” movement gains traction in the West. Not the first time Facebook has been accused of meddling in global politics While Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has claimed that his platform is a politically agnostic tool for its countless users, it is clear that the conglomerate actively works with governments and political parties worldwide. Facebook runs an active politics and government engagement team that travels the globe helping their political clients use the company’s digital tools to drive their campaigns. The politics unit is believed to be sizeable – one executive reported that the unit could deploy hundreds of staff, drawn in from the company’s legal, information security and policy units, during the height of an election. According to a report by Bloomberg, the politics unit has played a powerful role in the campaigns of US President Donald Trump, India Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte, among others. The unit has also come under fire in the European Union, for the spread of Islamic extremism on the Facebook network. A former senior staff with the politics unit, Elizabeth Linder who started and ran the unit’s Europe, Middle East and Africa efforts until 2016, told reporters that she chose to leave the company partially as she grew uneasy with what she saw as an increased focus on electioneering and campaigning. She said: “It’s not Facebook’s job, in my opinion, to be so close to any election campaign.”  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w876]  Mark Zuckerberg addresses Facebook user data scandal, vows to fix issues  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w877] CA data breach: Congress denies link, reminds BJP of using firm in 2010 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w878] UK had three contracts with Cambridge Analytica parent company  UK had three contracts with Cambridge Analytica parent company  A photographer takes a photograph of the nameplate of political consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, in central London, Britain  The British government had three contracts in the past with Cambridge Analytica's parent company SCL Group but they ended well before the current issues, a spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Wednesday. The contracts with were with the Ministry of Defence between 2014-2015, the Home Office (interior ministry) in 2009 and the Foreign Office in 2008-2009, the spokesman told reporters, adding there are no current contracts. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w879]   Cambridge Analytica scandal triggers BJP-Congress war of words         Cambridge Analytica scandal triggers BJP-Congress war of words    																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w880] What to expect from Zuckerberg if he testifies to Congress  What to expect from Zuckerberg if he testifies to Congress  On Wednesday evening, Zuckerberg told multiple news outlets that he was “open” and “happy” to testify in front of Congress. FILE PHOTO: Facebook Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks on stage during the annual Facebook F8 developers conference in San Jose, California, U.S., April 18, 2017. REUTERS/Stephen Lam/File Photo A brief history of Zuckerberg under oath Big CEOs sitting opposite a government of the people"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w881] CEO Mark Zuckerberg seems detached from the crisis engulfing the company. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s favorite slogan used to be “move fast and break things.” As controversy engulfs his firm, however, it now seems Facebook ( FB ) itself is broken—with Zuckerberg and his chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg both reluctant to get their hands dirty and aggressively address the problems. “Mark and Sheryl — or whoever is advising them— seem to be missing that the CEO’s job is to help shape the image of the organization in ways that are in its best interest,” says Stanford professor Robert Sutton, author of “ Scaling up Excellence ” and several other books on leadership. “What I have seen so far reminds me of what tobacco would do—deflect and obfuscate and blame external forces, and only admit the truth when all other options are exhausted.” Facebook ( FB ) has lost a whopping $50 billion in market value, with the shares down about 10%, since the New York Times and Observer of London published a set of exposes regarding the use of Facebook user data by a research firm working for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign in 2016. That firm, Cambridge Analytica, may have gathered unauthorized data on as many as 50 million Facebook users in the United States, and exploited it to help Trump win. Here’s Facebook’s five-day stock chart: Source: Yahoo Finance Allowing access to that data may have violated a 2011 consent decree between Facebook and the U.S. government, possibly exposing the firm to billions in fines. The Federal Trade Commission is now investigating that. Attorneys general in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania are also probing whether the social-media giant may have broken any laws. And key politicians in the United States and Europe are calling for further probes into the matter, and perhaps new rules and regulations governing what the social-media giant can do. Zuckerberg was silent for five days following the Cambridge Analytical news, while two subordinates issued a handful of tweets defending the company. On March 21, Zuckerberg finally responded, in his usual way, with a post on his Facebook page  explaining what Facebook plans to do next. “We … made mistakes,” he wrote. “ Zuckerberg did not use the words “sorry” or “apologize,” or any derivative of such words. Facebook shares fell slightly as his post went live, recovered, and ended a tad lower that where they had been before Zuckerberg spoke up. A fundamental conflict Zuckerberg sees his company as a benign force whose mission is to “ connect the world .” With 2 billion users—more than one-quarter of the world’s entire population—Facebook has arguably succeeded at that. But some critics see Facebook and Zuckerberg as considerably more sinister. “I think Zuckerberg does not have inside himself a normal facility for empathy,” says Ophir Gottlieb, CEO of Capital Market Laboratories, an investing research firm. “His go-to behavior is to maximize shareholder value. It will hurt Facebook.” Zuckerberg has adroitly maximized shareholder value, turning his college startup into the 7 th most valuable public company in the United States. Even with the recent swoon, Facebook’s stock is up 18% during the last year, and an astonishing 543% during the last 5 years. But Facebook’s business model has an inherent conflict. “The promise to users is to connect them with friends and family, which relies on trust,” says Harvard Business School professor Nancy Koehn, author of“ Forged in Crisis .” “But the business model is to sell information about users—sometimes in a surgical way—to advertisers. The conflict is fundamental.” Zuckerberg has alternated between combativeness and penitence as evidence has mounted of political operations on Facebook that undermine democratic processes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Two days after Trump won the presidency in 2016, Zuckerberg said it was “crazy ” to think that fake news on Facebook played any role in the outcome of the election. But as new details emerged throughout 2017, Zuckerberg changed his views (at least publicly). Early this year, Zuckerberg acknowledged, “ we currently make too many errors enforcing our policies and preventing misuse of our tools. My personal challenge for 2018 is to focus on fixing these important issues.” Instead of fixes, however, 2018 has brought the largest selloff in Facebook shares since the rocky aftermath of its 2012 public offering, and probably the most severe challenge to its business in the company’s 14-year history. The company is awash in talent, and it certainly has the financial resources to reboot and reassure critics. But much relies on Zuckerberg himself, since he controls more than half of the voting shares in the company, making Facebook as much of an autocracy as any public company can be. “This has a lot to do with Mark Zuckerberg getting right with himself,” says Koehn. “I haven’t given up on Facebook or its people,” says Sutton of Stanford. “I hope and want to believe they will get out there, tell the truth, and make changes that show they really do care about users first.” But repairing the damage could take awhile. Meanwhile, Sutton suggests an experiment: Tell students in CS 106A, Stanford’s popular Intro to Computer Science course, they have comparable job offers from both Facebook and Google, and see which they choose. “A year ago,” says Sutton, “I think it would be tough choice for most students.  Right now, I suspect it would be lopsided in favor of Google.” "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w882]      The BJP on Wednesday slammed the Congress for its alleged involvement with the disgraced firm Cambridge Analytica after its alleged role in stealing Facebook data to help politicians in elections was first reported by Janta Ka Reporter on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad warned the Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckergerg, of consequences if he did not come clean on the allegations of data theft from his social media platform. Prasad also went on to accuse the Congress of having hired Cambridge Analytica to help the party in Gujarat elections. He quoted a report by Economic Times published last year on 9 October 2017 to substantiate his allegations. However, the Economic Times report merely attributes ‘media reports’ to support its claims that the CA chief Alexander Nix had met several opposition leaders to help UPA in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The ET report titled ‘This is the Brahmastra Rahul Gandhi will hurl at PM Modi’ was suggestive of the fact that the newspaper had obtained clinching evidence in support of its claim. Hence the use of definitive word ‘will’ in title. However, the entire story failed to carry a single quote from any credible source other than simply relying on unnamed ‘media reports.’ A source had also tipped off  Janta Ka Reporter about the Congress potentially hiring Cambridge Analytica in September last year. But, when we spoke to other highly reliable sources within the top leadership of the party, the claims were found to be lacking credibility. Countering Prasad’s allegations on Wednesday, Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala quoted the claims made by none other than the Cambridge Analytica’s website. On its website, CA said that it was part of “India branch of the SCL group which offers ‘political campaign management’ among its services.” Surjewala also said that the Congress or the Congress President had never used and ‘never hired the services of the company called Cambridge Analytica mentioned by the Union Law Minister.’ “This is a fake agenda, a white lie being dished out on fake facts by the Law Minister unfortunately and this has become a daily order with the Law Minister Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad,” he added. The CA website also claims that it was hired for the Bihar assembly elections in 2010, when the BJP and JDU fought together. The website then states that ‘90% seats targetted by Cambridge Analytica being won.’ The BJP-JDU combine were the winners in the 2010 elections raising questions if the saffron party had hired a company which operates in stealing an individual’s personal data from social media platform. In the report first published by Janta Ka Reporter in India on Tuesday, we had carried the video link to Channel 4 documentary, where Nix had confessed to adopting illegal means including supplying prostitutes to secure his clients’ victories in elections. Quick Adsense WordPress Plugin: http://quickadsense.com/ JKR Ad The BJP’s embarrassment doesn’t end here. A senior executive working for the Indian arm of the CA claims on his LinkedIn profile how his firm had helped the BJP secure 272+ seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Himanshu Sharma, Vice President with Ovleno Business Intelligence, the Indian arm of Cambridge Analytica, claims on his Linkedin page, “Managed four election campaigns successfully for the ruling party BJP. Achieved target of Mission 272+ by managing call centre management project-profiling of each and every volunteer/supporter who had extended his/her support to get involved…Database to be provided constituency wise to BJP candidate as an additional support for national elections and state elections of Haryana, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Delhi.” Barring Delhi, the BJP had won assembly elections in all three states.   According to a report by Economic Times , the paper Prasad quoted to attack the Congress on Wednesday, Ovleno was started by ‘socialist Indian politician K.C. Tyagi’s son Amrish Tyagi, who flew to the US last year to help Trump’s campaigners better understand and then target Asian-Americans. Tyagi wrote in a piece for The Economic Times that it was on Cambridge Analytica’s recommendations that Team Trump ran an ad in Hindi and Trump’s daughter-in-law Lara Yunaska celebrated Diwali at a Hindu temple in Virginia, a key swing state.’ KC Tyagi is a former Rajya Sabha member with the JDU, the BJP’s alliance partner in Bihar.    "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w883]    Theresa May dodges question on Conservative party links to Cambridge Analytica   Theresa May dodges question on Conservative party links to Cambridge Analytica  A number of Conservative party figures have links to embattled data company Cambridge Analytica. Theresa May refused to address the links when quizzed during Prime Minister’s Questions on Wednesday. The prime minister said the government currently has no contracts with Cambridge Analytica and believes the allegations engulfing the firm are “very concerning.” Her spokesperson later added that former Prime Minister David Cameron was approached by Cambridge Analytica. LONDON – Theresa May has refused to address a number of links between the Conservative party and Cambridge Analytica (CA), the British firm at the centre of the Facebook data storm. CA is at the centre of an international scandal after The Observer revealed it harvested the data of 50 million US voters on Facebook. A Channel 4 News investigation also caught the company’s bosses boasting about using honeytraps, bribes, and fake news to influence elections. In Prime Minister’s Questions today, the SNP’s Westminster leader, Ian Blackford, read out a list of alleged links between Cambridge Analytica and the prime minister’s Conservative Party.  “Can I point out that the parent company of Cambridge Analytica is Strategic Communications Laboratories. It has been run by a chairman of Oxford Conservative Association,” Blackford said. This was a reference to Julian Wheatland, who tweeted this selfie below on the campaign trail with former Prime Minister David Cameron in 2015. Wheatland was chairman of CA’s parent company SCL Group. source Julian Wheatland/Twitter “Its founding chairman was a former Conservative MP. A director has donated over £700,000 to the Tory party,” Blackford continued. “A former Conservative party treasurer is a shareholder. “We know about the links to the Conservative party – they go on and on. Will the prime minister confirm to the House, her government’s connections to the company?” Watch Blackford quiz May on Cambridge Analytica links Theresa May asked aboutConservative links to Cambridge Analytica and its parent company #PMQs https://t.co/SVE6idtA6U pic.twitter.com/d4C9Ni9YoV — Wanda Rees (@WandaReesMs) March 21, 2018 The prime minister refused to address the specific cases mentioned but described allegations against Cambridge Analytica as “very concerning” and called for the company and others to comply fully with investigations. “The right honourable gentleman has been talking about two companies. The parent company, SCL, and Cambridge Analytica. I can say to him that as far as I’m aware, the government has no current contracts with Cambridge Analytica or with the SCL group,” May said. “The allegations against Cambridge Analytica are clearly very concerning and it is absolutely right that they should be properly investigated. “It’s right that the Information Commissioner is doing exactly that because people need to have confidence in how their personal data is being used. “I would expect Facebook, Cambridge Analytica, and all organisations involved to comply fully with the investigation taking place.” A spokesman for the prime minister later told Business Insider that the Conservatives were approached by Cambridge Analytica “under a previous administration but a decision was taken not to go ahead.” The party refused the services of CA under former leader David Cameron. The spokesperson added that “checks are going on across Whitehall” into the possibility of previous contracts. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w884]   Amazon overtakes Alphabet to become the world's second most valuable company, next only to Apple  Amazon overtakes Alphabet to become the world's second most valuable company, next only to Apple By surpassing Alphabet – the parent company of Google - Amazon has become the second most valuable company in the world, next only to Apple. By gaining 2.7 percent in share prices, the total stock market value of Amazon was pegged at $768 billion, while Alphabet, which fell 0.4 percent on Tuesday, was worth $762.5 billion, lagging behind but neck and neck. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos Amazon had overtaken Microsoft as the third most valuable company only in February and continues to exhibit an exponential growth rate. In fact, among all the tech giants in the US, Amazon has had a particularly good run, rallying massively last year with the stock surging 85 percent over the past 12 months, and 35 percent since the start of 2018 itself. This surge can not only be attributed to the growing flourish in its ecommerce wing, but also to its cloud computing offering, “Amazon Web Services,” that dominates the space. Alphabet, on the other hand, has seen its stock gain four percent since the beginning of 2018, and about 26 percent overall, over the span of twelve months. Topping the list of the world's most valuable companies is still Apple, with a total market cap of roughly $889 billion. Meanwhile, a scandal that shook Wall Street are the recent revelations about Facebook’s hack, wherein a political data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica is said to have stolen the data of $50 million Facebook users to send them targeted propaganda during the elections. Facebook is now the seventh most valuable company, trailing behind Microsoft, China’s Tencent and Berkshire Hathaway, in that order. So far, it has lost more than nine percent of its market capitalisation since the expose. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w885] Big Tech needs to learn accountability  Big Tech’s accountability-avoidance problem is getting worse  Silicon Valley’s company’s and CEOs need to take accountability for their problems. (image: Reuters: Stephen Lam) How not to talk to your users  We’ve seen this movie before There are exceptions More from Rob: Google’s self-driving Waymo cars will be picking you up soon There’s a $10 million race to build you a robot avatar by 2021 Elon Musk: Mars will be great, if AI doesn’t kill us first These companies want you to cut the power cord "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w886] Former Facebook employees sold their stock  Former Facebook employees sold their shares before the social network's stock took a real hit  Some former Facebook employees recently sold their shares in the social network.  Facebook backlash It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 The social network will survive  Facebook botches response to a scandal, again "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w887]   Strong action will be taken if Facebook tries to influence electoral process in India: Ravi Shankar Prasad  Strong action will be taken if Facebook tries to influence electoral process in India: Ravi Shankar Prasad “Any attempts by Facebook to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will not be tolerated,” says Union Minister of Information and Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad. Alarm bells have been sounded around the world after the expose that claims that the data of 50 million Facebook users was illegally harvested to influence their opinion around the US elections in 2016. As this scandal broke out, reports also surfaced that the organisation that orchestrated this hack - political data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica - was involved in Bihar’s 2010 elections. It has come to light that the company’s parent organisation, Strategic Communication Laboratories (SCL), had partnered with Ovleno Business Intelligence (OBI), a company owned by Amrish Tyagi, son of the senior JD(U) leader K C Tyagi. OBI also has ties with BJP, Congress and  Janata Dal  (United), as it counts them among its political clients. The minister, in that regard, questioned the Congress about any malpractices that may have been carried out. “We ask Congress how much data of Indians was shared with Cambridge Analytica’s CEO, as there are serious allegations of data theft against this company in the US, England. The company boasts of having influenced elections in Nigeria, Kenya, Brazil, also in India,” he said, according to this Indian Express article . He added that while the government supports the free exchange of ideas on social media, it will not tolerate any attempts to influence the electoral process in India. “If need be, strong action will be taken,” he stated. As far as their involvement in the US electoral proceedings is concerned, Cambridge Analytica is said to have used a third-party quiz app called ‘This is your digital life’, which collected user information through questions and then harvested the data of the user as well as their friends - which violates Facebook’s policies, as explicit permission had not been sought by the app. This information essentially belonged to swing voters for the US elections – and their algorithms dispensed misleading political messaging through ads to sway their opinions in Republican candidate and now US President Donald Trump’s favour. The firm was also said to have an involvement in the Brexit campaign. Facebook co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg has also come under fire for this lapse in security, and is under immense pressure as the hashtag 'DeleteFacebook' is going viral on social media urging people to boycott the platform. He is reportedly also being pushed to testify in front of the US Senate as well as the UK Parliamentary committee on Digital, Culture, Media and Sport. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w888]        World App developer says he is scapegoat in Facebook data row  The academic behind the app that harvested data from 50 million Facebook users said yesterday he was being used as ""a scapegoat"" in the row over online privacy. Dr Aleksandr Kogan said British company Cambridge Analytica (CA), which is at the centre of a major scandal rocking Facebook, assured him that what he was doing was ""perfectly legal and within the terms of service"" of the social media giant. A former CA employee said the company was able to create psychological profiles on 50 million Facebook users through the use of a personality prediction app that was downloaded by 270,000 people. CA has blamed Mr Kogan, the University of Cambridge psychologist who developed the personality survey called This Is Your Digital Life, for misusing the data. Dr Kogan told the BBC yesterday that he was ""stunned"" by the allegations against him.  He said: ""The events of the past week have been a total shell shock. My view is that I am being basically used as a scapegoat by both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica.   ""Honestly, we thought we were acting perfectly appropriately. We thought we were doing somethingnormal."" Dr Kogan told the BBC that the services provided by the political consultancy had been greatly exaggerated. ""What Cambridge Analytica has tried to sell is magic. Honestly, we thought we were acting perfectly appropriately. Dr Aleksandr Kogan ""They have made claims that this is incredibly accurate and it tells you everything there is to tell about you. But I think the reality is it is not that."" Mr Christopher Wylie, 28, who became the whistleblower by providing the Guardian with a tranche of documents last year that laid out the secret workings behind CA, in an interview with the Washington Post said Mr Steve Bannon was deeply involved in the company's strategy. Mr Bannon was the former chief strategist at the White House. He approved spending nearly US$1 million (S$1.3 million) to acquire data, including Facebook profiles, back in 2014. Meanwhile, Mr Brian Acton, a co-founder of WhatsApp, which Facebook bought in 2014, urged people to delete their accounts on Facebook, USA Today reported. ""It is time,"" tweeted Mr Acton, who quit Facebook earlier this year to start a foundation. He added the hashtag #DeleteFacebook. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w889]    Most Facebook users believe Facebook will have a negative impact on society within 10 years   Most Facebook users believe Facebook will have a negative impact on society within 10 years  After remaining silent for days, Mark Zuckerberg finally addressed Cambridge Analytica’s data breach in accessing Facebook users’ personal information. Facebook’s oversight has launched an outpouring of criticism from leaders in the tech community, as well as mistrust from the platform’s users. However, this isn’t the first time Facebook has faced skepticism in recent months. A December poll from CB Insights reveals that the majority of Facebook users feel that the site will negatively impact society within the next 10 years. As this chart by Statista shows , more people have feelings of antipathy towards Facebook than they do towards Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Apple combined. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w890]    Actor Jim Carrey dumped his Facebook stock at exactly the right time   Actor Jim Carrey dumped his Facebook stock at exactly the right time  Actor Jim Carrey tweeted on February 6 that he was dumping his Facebook shares because the company profited from Russian interference in US elections. Facebook shares have fallen more than 9% over the past two sessions after news surfaced that Cambridge Analytica accessed data to more than 50 million users without their permission.  Actor Jim Carrey dumped his Facebook shares at exactly the right time. “I’m dumping my @ facebook stock and deleting my page because @ facebook profited from Russian interference in our elections and they’re still not doing enough to stop it,” Carrey tweeted on February 6. “I encourage all other investors who care about our future to do the same. # unfriendfacebook.” Facebook shares closed at $185.31 on February 6, but have fallen more than 9% this week to their lowest since September following news out this past weekend that Cambridge Analytica accessed data from 50 million users without their permission. The stock closed at $168.15 Tuesday. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg The selloff in Facebook shares has been fast and furious. They’ve shed 9% in just two days, and erased roughly $50 billion in market cap . During the selloff, Facebook has slipped one place in the rankings of the most valuable US companies, falling from fifth to sixth, and is now behind Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway . "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w891]   Mark Zuckerberg asked to testify; ‪Cambridge Analytica data firm’s CEO suspended          Mark Zuckerberg asked to testify; ‪Cambridge Analytica data firm’s CEO suspended																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w892]   Facebook will face strong actions if it tries to influence the electoral process in India says Ravi Shankar Prasad  Facebook will face strong actions if it tries to influence the electoral process in India says Ravi Shankar Prasad      																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w895]   Cambridge Analytica row: Ravi Shankar Prasad drops data bomb on Rahul Gandhi, Congress hits back "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w896]  Facebook is in the eye of storm but where is CEO Mark Zuckerberg?  Facebook is in the eye of storm but where is CEO Mark Zuckerberg?  With Facebook getting mired in its biggest-ever controversy following a massive data breach, everyone is asking one question: Where is its CEO Mark Zuckerberg? Not only Zuckerberg has remained quiet so far, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg who has been the face of the company's PR strategy is yet to speak on the data scandal. According to a report in ReCode on Wednesday, Zuckerberg is slated to address a weekly Q&A session with employees on Friday and he may speak before that meeting. Normally, Zuckerberg or Sandberg come out with long blog posts whenever Facebook gets tangled in controversies but the silence this time is deafening. Former Cambridge Analytica CEO admits company played decisiv e role in 2016 US presidential election Facebook is facing the heat after Cambridge Analytica, a British consulting company, was accused of harvesting data of up to 50 million Facebook users without permission and using the data to help politicians, including US President Donald Trump and the Brexit campaign. European Union (EU) and British lawmakers have demanded that social media giant Facebook should clarify data breach following revelations that personal data was massively misused for political purposes. British lawmakers have also summoned Zuckerberg to give oral evidence after ""misleading to the Committee"" occurred at a previous hearing. British Prime Minister Theresa May has expressed her concern over the allegations that Cambridge Analytica exploited data of millions of Facebook users without their authorisation in election campaigns. WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton is asking users to delete Facebook Facebook has already suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform. The social media giant admitted that an estimated 2,70,000 people had downloaded the app and shared their personal information with it. However, the firm denied all wrongdoings and insisted it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w897]  Facebook market value erodes $45 billion in last two days - Technology News in Numbers: Facebook market value erodes $45 billion in last two days  The erosion in market value of Facebook in the last two days, after it was revealed that a data analytics firm had harvested data of 50 million users to direct political campaigns, including that for US President Donald Trump. Why is it important? The fallout continued to build on Tuesday, even as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg maintained a silence. A Parliamentary committee in the UK issued summons to Zuckerberg over the issue of user consent in sharing data. The board of Cambridge Analytica, the data analytics firm in question, suspended CEO Alexander Nix with immediate effect pending a full, independent investigation. Tell me more: Cambridge Analytica is in talks with the Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress for a possible collaboration in the 2019 elections. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w898]  Govt warns Facebook of stringent legal action if found misusing data  Govt warns Facebook of stringent legal action if found misusing data IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad says that under the IT Act, Facebook’s chief executive officer, Mark Zuckerberg, can be summoned to India if required  IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also alleged that the Congress was associated with Cambridge Analytica, which is at the centre of a global storm on the alleged misuse of data from 50 million Facebook users.  The government on Wednesday warned Facebook of stringent legal action if it is found misusing data, with law and information technology (IT) minister Ravi Shankar Prasad saying that under the IT Act, the social media giant’s chief executive officer, Mark Zuckerberg, can be summoned to India if required.  The warning came after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the Congress party was associated with London-based analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, which is at the centre of a global storm on the alleged misuse of data from 50 million Facebook users. Prasad said the Congress indulged in “theft of online data” to help with its election campaigns, a charge that the opposition party denied. “Will the Congress party depend on data manipulation and theft to woo voters? What is Cambridge Analytica’s role in (Congress president) Rahul Gandhi’s social media profile,” Prasad, who is also a senior BJP spokesperson, said in an interaction with reporters. “Indian National Congress or the Congress president have never used and never hired the services of the company called Cambridge Analytica mentioned by the Union law minister. This is a fake agenda, a white lie being dished out on fake facts by the law minister unfortunately, and this has become a daily order,” Randeep Surjewala, the Congress party’s chief spokesperson, said. Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive Alexander Nix—who was suspended on Tuesday—was secretly recorded in a Channel 4 sting claiming that the company ran Donald Trump’s campaign during the 2016 US presidential election. The firm is accused of harvesting private data from millions of Facebook profiles to influence and identify voter behaviour. As of January, there were around 250 million Facebook users in India. According to security experts, the incident yet again highlights the need for a stronger data protection law in the country. “It has been almost six years since the report of the Justice AP Shah group of experts on privacy, but India still doesn’t have a data protection law. We urgently need a law that enshrines privacy by design — that would prevent entities like Truecaller from gaining access to third parties’ data without their consent, and entities like Facebook from providing it— as well as a liability regime that would enable an Indian data protection authority to hold accountable those who violate the law,” said Pranesh Prakash, policy director at think tank Centre for Internet and Society "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w899]  Reports had alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data mined from Facebook in the voter research.   Prasad said any attempt by social media sites, including Facebook, to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will not be tolerated.  India on Wednesday warned social media platforms like Facebook of 'strong action' if any attempt was made by them to influence the country's electoral process through undesirable means. Amid probe by US privacy watchdog over a potential breach of user confidentiality by Facebook, IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the government fully supports freedom of press, speech and expression and is for exchange of ideas on social media. But any attempt by social media sites, including Facebook, to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will not be tolerated, he told reporters in Parliament House complex. ""If need be, strong action will be taken,"" he said. The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), an independent government body charged with insuring that companies abide by their own privacy policies, is looking at whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree after media reports alleged that it had handed the data of millions of users to a political consultancy. Reports had alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data mined from Facebook in the voter research it conducted for President Donald Trump during the 2016 elections campaign. Prasad alleged that Congress party had links with Cambridge Analytica. ""My question to Congress party is whether to win elections, Congress will depend on data manipulation and theft of data,"" he said. ""What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in social media profile of Rahul Gandhi,"" he asked. He alleged that Cambridge Analytica, the agency roped in by Congress to run their 2019 campaign and termed as their 'Brahmastra' in certain section of media, is accused of using bribes, sex workers to entrap politicians and stealing data from Facebook. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w900]    	"Facebook expressed outrage Tuesday over the misuse of its data as Cambridge Analytica, the British firm at the centre of a major scandal rocking the social media giant, suspended its chief executive. "	"The move to suspend CEO Alexander Nix came as recordings emerged in which he boasts his data company played an expansive role in Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, doing all of its research, analytics as well as digital and television campaigns. "	"In undercover filming captured by Britain's Channel 4 News, he is also seen boasting about entrapping politicians and secretly operating in elections around the world through shadowy front companies. "	Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic have demanded answers after it was revealed at the weekend that Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested information from 50 million Facebook users. 	"Cambridge Analytica has denied using Facebook data for the Trump campaign, but the scandal has ratcheted up the pressure on the social media giant -- already under fire for allowing fake news to proliferate on its platform during the US campaign. "	US media reported Tuesday evening that the Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook over the data scandal. 	"Facebook said its top executives were ""working around the clock to get all the facts."" "	"The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens, the firm said. "	Cambridge Analytica's board said meanwhile that Nix would stand aside immediately pending an investigation into the snowballing allegations against him. 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w901]           WhatsApp co-founder says “it is time to delete Facebook” WhatsApp co-founder says “it is time to delete Facebook”   After reports of Cambridge Analytica using Facebook’s user information came to light, people across social media have begun to urge others to either #DeleteFacebook or #BoycottFacebook in response. Co-founder of Whatsapp Brian Acton has joined this movement. He published a tweet saying: “It is time. #deletefacebook.” Acton left the company in 2017, three years after Facebook bought WhatsApp for $19bn (£11.4bn at the then exchange rates) in 2014. The tweet came after a bruising five-day period for Facebook that has seen regulators swarm and its stock price plunge following concerns over data privacy in the wake of revelations about Cambridge Analytica’s misuse of user data.   ​  ​ ​   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w902]              India has taken down the local website of Cambridge Analytica India has taken down the local website of Cambridge Analytica    India has taken down the local website of Cambridge Analytica, the company that is accused of using personal data of 50 million Facebook members to influence the US presidential election. However, the company has no charges against it. SCL India, a venture between the SCL group in London and Ovleno Business Intelligence, says both India’s major political parties are its clients. IT minister of India warned Facebook stating that it would also face “tough action” if it was found to have misused Indians’ data. Both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and main opposition Congress deny links with SCL India but have accused one another of utilising the services of the company. Cambridge Analytica has also consistently denied any wrongdoing and most recently suspended its boss Alexander Nix, after footage by Britain’s Channel 4 News showed him appearing to suggest tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w903] Zuckerberg admits 'mistakes' amid Trump-tied data scandal		"  Facebook honcho Mark Zuckerberg offered to testify before Congress over the Cambridge Analytica scandal as he apologized for the first time for allowing personal data to be misused in the lead up to the 2016 presidential election, the New York Daily News reported today. After five days of silence, Zuckerberg appeared on CNN on Wednesday night and addressed the scandal by saying, “So this was a major breach of trust, and I’m really sorry that this happened.” “You know, we have a basic responsibility to protect people's data. And if we can't do that, then we don't deserve to have the opportunity to serve people. So our responsibility now is to make sure that this doesn't happen again,” he added. Facebook has been embroiled in scandal since it was revealed Friday that the Trump campaign-connected data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed personal information on more than 50 million users.  The British-based company used the information to create complex algorithms that could have influenced Americans to vote for candidate Donald Trump. Those explosive revelations were exacerbated after Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix was caught on video telling an undercover Channel 4 reporter that his company ""informed all the strategy"" of President Trump's campaign, including ""all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting."" Authorities in both the U.S. and England have questioned how Facebook could have allowed this to happen. After Sen. Dianne Feinstein and other members of Congress called for Zuckerberg to testify, he said, “So the short answer is, is I'm happy to if it's the right thing to do. Facebook testifies in Congress regularly on a number of topics, some high-profile, and some not.” “And our objective is always to provide Congress...to have the most information that they can,” he added.  Zuckerberg also admitted in a lengthy statement on Wednesday that the company found out in 2015 that a Moldavian scientist named Aleksandr Kogan had shared a large amount of personal data with Cambridge Analytica that he had obtained through a quiz app. ""It is against our policies for developers to share data without people's consent, so we immediately banned Kogan's app from our platform, and demanded that Kogan and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that they had deleted all improperly acquired data,"" Zuckerberg said. But, as revealed last week, Cambridge Analytica did not delete a large chunk of the data, which was subsequently used for the company's Trump-connected election work. Zuckerberg admitted Facebook made mistakes and could have done more to make sure the data was actually deleted. He pledged to take a number of steps in upcoming weeks to beef up the social media platform's privacy, including auditing all apps that have had access to large amounts of personal data. Zuckerberg also promised that developers will be blocked from accessing personal data if it's been more than three months since the users last went on their apps. ""I'm responsible for what happens on our platform,"" Zuckerberg said. ""While this specific issue involving Cambridge Analytica should no longer happen with new apps today, that doesn't change what happened in the past."" CNN correspondent Laurie Segall also confronted Zuckerberg about Facebook’s impact on the 2016 elections but he avoided a direct answer and said, “Oh, that’s hard….It’s really hard for me to have a full assessment of that” before listing a number of “different forces at play.”  “If you told me in 2004 when I was getting started with Facebook that a big part of my responsibility today would be to help protect the integrity of elections against interference by other governments, you know, I wouldn't have really believed that was going to be something that I would have to work on 14 years later,” he said. Russian troll farms utilized Facebook, along with other social media platforms, to create divisive content and targeted ads that reached millions of Americans ahead of the 2016 elections. When asked whether Facebook should be regulated, Zuckerberg suggested he was open to the possibility and turned the conversation to online advertisements. “I’m actually not sure we shouldn’t be regulated,” Zuckerberg said Wednesday. “If you look at how much regulation there is around advertising on TV, in print, you know, it's just not clear why there should be less on the internet. You should have the same level of transparency required,” Zuckerberg said. “People should know who is buying the ads they see on Facebook, and you should be able to go to any page and see all the ads people are running to different audiences,” he added. Facebook has seen its stocks plummet even though it quickly banned Cambridge Analytica from its platforms after news of the personal data misuse first surfaced.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																				
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w904]   The hidden persuaders  No apologies for stealing the title of a book by Vance Packard published in 1957, and one of the earliest works to recognise the power of advertising in the lives of all of us. Scroll forward 70 years, plug in the internet and social media and suddenly Packard’s seminal work comes into sharp focus. The furore and the fallout from the revelations regarding the activities of Cambridge Analytica in the American elections of 2016 (as well as other elections that the company has provided analysis and consultancy for) has knocked billions of dollars off the value of Facebook, provoked a backlash from investors, brought calls for questions to be asked in several parliaments and probably passed under the radar of many in Pakistan. It shouldn’t. The issue at the heart of the scandal is one dear to the hearts of political wonks and conspiracy theorists across the country — rigging. The manipulation of electoral outcomes by fair means but mostly foul and the implications of the Cambridge Analytica (CA) affair bear close scrutiny in a local context. Why? For starters there are over 44 million holders of social media accounts of all types in Pakistan, 22.2 per cent of the population, a figure that was accurate in December 2017 and is higher today by an unknown number. By far the greatest proportion of that number belongs to Facebook, with 30 million-plus and Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter far behind. The primary reason for the growth of social media usage is the successful penetration of 3G and 4G technologies, assisted by the boom in sales of affordable smart devices. The middle class is expanding, there are changes in poverty levels that make entry to hitherto beyond reach services more possible, and the under-30s are internet-connected almost across the spectrum. And millions of them are voters. How much time do we spend considering how much of ourselves gets put on the internet every time we log on? Probably not much. Those that are careful about their social profiles may think they have a small digital footprint — probably not true. Most of us, myself included, write off the fact that we have made a Faustian pact with the internet for the advantages and benefits derived from its use. Effectively, and no matter what cloaking device we may use, we all stand naked in cyberspace — or at least naked to those with the tools to unwrap us. So what did CA do? It markets itself as a provider of consumer research, providing targeted advertising — the hidden persuader — for political and corporate clients. Among other things it claims to have influenced elections in Kenya in 2013 and 2017 and was instrumental in bringing to power the now-president Uhuru Kenyatta. The Trump campaign employed CA which again claims it played a part in his election. How? Starting in 2014 CA obtained data on 50 million Facebook users via a means that was deceptive. They were unaware of being ‘harvested’ and 270,000 downloaded an application — and how many of us think before we download — which passed their data and that of their friends to CA. The claim by CA to have subsequently deleted the data or what it was used for rings a tad hollow. The UK-based Channel 4 News secretly filmed the CA chief executive claiming that his company could use “honey traps” to ensnare politicians in “compromising” activities, use bribes and ex-intelligence officers to unearth information damaging to politicians and their parties, hurting their electoral chances. For Facebook the events that have followed have been catastrophic though they are unlikely to have suffered a mortal wound, economies of scale will be the life preserver. The brand is going to suffer a short-term loss of confidence, and regulatory activity that is governmentally driven is going to follow swiftly around the world. This is the cyber equivalent of the Weinstein Moment that ripped apart the hidden culture of sexual abuse of women in the entertainment industry. And what of those 44 million Pakistanis connected to the interthingies? We may rest assured that the very tech-savvy geeks in the depths of Pak-cyber will have already tagged themselves as hidden persuaders and be hard at it. Think before you press ‘send’. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w905]  Facebook founder Zuckerberg admits mistakes, pledges changes after data scandal  Facebook founder Zuckerberg admits mistakes, pledges changes after data scandal    Facebook founder Zuckerberg admits mistakes, pledges changes after data scandal  Mark Zuckerberg, founder of giant social network Facebook, has admitted the  mistakes over the Cambridge Analytica scandal. After admitting that the giant social network made mistakes, Mark Zuckerberg pledged to introduce changes that would make it harder for third-party apps to ""harvest"" users' information. A ""breach of trust"" between app creator Aleksandr Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook had occurred, he said adding that it was also a breach of trust ""between Facebook and the people who share their data with us"". ""I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I'm responsible for what happens on our platform,"" Mr Zuckerberg said in a statement on his Facebook page. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w906]  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w907]     																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w908]   Indian minister delivers 'warning across the Atlantic' over social media misuse ahead of elections 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w909]              The co-founder of a company Facebook bought for $19 billion just told followers to delete Facebook     Amid the turmoil of the Cambridge Analytica data scandal, WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton on Tuesday told his Twitter followers to delete Facebook. Facebook acquired WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014. Acton remained with the company for several years before quitting to start the Signal Foundation earlier this year. His WhatsApp co-founder, Jan Koum, still leads the company and sits on Facebook's board. Acton also applied for a job at Facebook in 2009, and posted about his rejection on Twitter at the time: Facebook has come under fire this week after reports emerged that political data analytics company Cambridge Analytica accessed the data of over 50 million users of the social media network without their permission. Cambridge Analytica got that data from the creator of a quiz taken by 270,000 Facebook users. That quiz creator passed the data to Cambridge Analytica against Facebook policy. Facebook knew about the data leak back in 2015, but the public only learned after reports in the New York Times and Observer over the weekend. Cambridge Analytica is funded in large part by Robert Mercer, who donated money to President Trump's election campaign, and it helped the Trump campaign target poltical ads on Facebook, but the firm says it did not use any data gained in this incident on the campaign. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg have remained quiet throughout the scandal, inviting yet more criticism from analysts and investors, and fueling critics who argue for more regulation of big tech companies.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w910] Mukhriz and ex-aide accuse each other of lying over Cambridge Analytica              SCL Group Southeast Asia chief Azrin Zizal and his former boss and ex-Kedah menteri besar Mukhriz Mahathir have accused each other of lying over the role of  Cambridge Analytica (CA) in Kedah during the 2013 general election. ""Mukhriz said CA worked for BN. This again is not true... The 2013 election advice for Kedah was provided to Mukhriz personally. ""At no time has CA or its parent SCL Group ever worked for or been paid by BN or any part of the government of Malaysia. ""Perhaps – while Mukhriz continues to deny my work for him and deny the benefits he gained from the advice I provided to him from CA and SCL Group for Kedah during the 2013 general election – he will also deny Kedah winning an extra six parliamentary seats, winning over the state and him becoming menteri besar?"" he asked in a statement today. Azrin's statement is in line with the Prime Minister's Office saying yesterday that neither the government nor BN had ever contracted   CA. Mukhriz had dubbed the PMO statement "" misleading ,"" and an attempt to divert attention away from the ""possible use of illegal campaign tactics as admitted by CA for BN."" When contacted today, Mukhriz said that he stood by his earlier statements. ""Azrin is clearly lying... His claims that BN’s win in Kedah and my subsequent appointment as MB was all his doing is absolutely delusional. ""He should be reminded that it was CA themselves who claimed in their website that they helped Kedah BN. I never admitted to knowing anything about that,"" the Bersatu deputy president told Malaysiakini . Mukhriz added that CA and SCL Group are currently accused of deceit and the dissemination of fake news for the benefit of political parties who employed them.  ""To expect Malaysians to now believe what they say is asinine,"" he said. 'Absolutely false' Azrin had previously served with Mukhriz while the latter was deputy international trade and industry minister. Mukhriz said Azrin stopped   working for him when he became Kedah menteri besar in 2013.  However, Azrin refuted this, saying he continued to serve Mukhriz until 2015. ""This is absolutely false. I worked for Mukhriz personally and provided communications and strategy advice for him until 2015, including during the 2013 general election, and afterwards when he became menteri besar. ""I will provide proof if he continues to falsify the truth,"" he said. Mukhriz said he would be interested to know how Azrin would prove to have worked for him when he was menteri besar. ""Every media representative in Kedah knows that my media officer while I was MB was and still is Mohd Fisol Jaafar,"" he said. CA received international attention after it reportedly misused millions of users’ personal data on Facebook for political ends. The data analytics firm was also accused of using entrapment   tactics against political opponents, including sending operatives to offer bribes, and springing “honey traps.” CA’s managing director Mark Turnbull was caught on an undercover video by UK's Channel 4 as saying that the firm's job was to discover deep-rooted fears of its target audience. ""It's no good fighting an election campaign on the facts, but actually it's all about emotion,"" he had said. Additional reporting by Norman Goh Mukhriz slams 'misleading' PMO, says diverting from 'illegal tactics' PMO claims Cambridge Analytica reported directly to Mukhriz Granny’s blood pressure rises due to CA controversy Harapan MPs: BN-CA link reeks of ‘foreign interference’ Cambridge Analytica - Muhyiddin in the dark, says Najib does things on his own Mukhriz pleads ignorance on Cambridge Analytica’s role in Kedah Did you manipulate GE13, Bersatu’s Wan Saiful asks Najib ‘Sex, lies and bribes’ - Trump’s election consultants admit to working in M’sia Cambridge Analytica denies entrapping, says ‘grossly misrepresented’ Suspended Cambridge Analytica boss boasts of influencing US polls Facebook hires independent auditors to probe alleged data breach UK authorities seek warrant to search Cambridge Analytica offices Factbox: What is Cambridge Analytica and what did it do?    Share this story   Related Reports mukhrizmahathir cambridgeanalytica  Suspended Cambridge Analytica boss boasts of influencing US polls  PMO claims Cambridge Analytica reported directly to Mukhriz  Granny's blood pressure rises due to CA controversy  Cambridge Analytica - Muhyiddin in the dark, says Najib does things on his own  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w911]   Here's Why PPBM's Mukhriz Mahathir Is In The Spotlight For The Cambridge Analytica Scandal   The party's deputy president Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir was Kedah's UMNO chief in GE13.  After political data firm Cambridge Analytica (CA) admitted to having worked in Malaysia , it was alleged that Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (PPBM)'s deputy president Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir received advice from SCL Group in the 13th general elections (GE13) In a statement yesterday, 20 March, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) claimed that CA was never hired by Barisan Nasional (BN) or ""any part of the Government of Malaysia"".  The statement went on to claim that SCL Group's country representative, Azrin Zizal, confirmed that he reported directly to Mukhriz and provided him with CA's advice for GE13. London-based SCL Group is the parent company of CA, the firm currently under fire for allegedly exploiting Facebook data to help President Donald Trump win the 2016 US election.   Mukhriz was Kedah UMNO chief before he was appointed as the state's Menteri Besar following GE13, the same time CA claimed on its website that it helped BN to the Kedah victory   CA claimed to have supported BN's Kedah campaign in GE13, which led to the party's landslide victory in the state. In a tweet yesterday, Mukhriz denied any contact between him and CA following the statement by PMO. He also admitted to knowing Azrin Zizal, head of the SCL Group in Malaysia. According to Malay Mail Online , Mukhriz resigned from the post in February 2016 after the Regency council told him that he had lost majority support in the state legislative assembly. I categorically deny any contact with @CamAnalytica at any time. Azrin Zizal was my Media Officer 2009-2013 at MITI. He was not employed by me as a representative of SCL Group or Cambridge Analytica, and he was no longer my Media Officer when I became Kedah MB. — Mukhriz Mahathir (@MukhrizMahathir) March 20, 2018 Mukhriz also clarified that the strategies and tactics utilised for GE13 were his own, although CA claimed otherwise on its website .  ""I never knew CA nor ever engaged them to do any work. If they claim to have been involved with Kedah in GE13, I was not aware of it, "" he said in a text message to Malaysiakini yesterday, 20 March. ""None of the strategies and tactics I employed as head of elections for Kedah BN during GE13 were in any way derived from advice from CA. Perhaps they were consulting with the Prime Minister's Office or BN's headquarters,"" Mukhriz added.   Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad also denied that Kedah BN engaged with CA during GE13 ""There is no record of Kedah government as such doing that thing,"" he was seen saying in a video by The Star. "" Kedah never had any outside interference in our election, "" Mahathir added.  Responding to the PMO's statement, PPBM announced that the party will ""seek the advice of its lawyers"" to assess possible legal action against the federal government ministry   Malay Mail Online reported that the party's chief strategist Datuk Rais Hussin called the statement a ""complete and blatant lie"". "" We are not taking anything off the table including unleashing legal action against them...this is clear defamation and an attempt to smear Mukhriz, "" Rais said in an interview with Malay Mail Online.  To date, Azrin Zizal, CA, and the SCL Group have yet to comment on the matter  What do you think about Cambridge Analytica's alleged involvement in GE13 so far? Let us know in the comments below.  A recent Channel 4 News exposé featured executives of Cambridge Analytica who admitted to having worked in Malaysia:  Data Firm Used By Trump's Election Campaign Admits To Working In M'sia & Other Countries ""We have played a pivotal role in winning presidential races as well as congressional and state elections.""  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w912]              Wall St starts to trim Facebook targets as shares fall     DZ Bank was the third Wall Street brokerage this week to make a rare cut in price targets for Facebook Inc on Wednesday as the social network's shares slid for a third day in response to a row over data use by Cambridge Analytica. The brokerage cut its target for the California-based firm by US$20 to US$210, still way above the current share price of US$165 but adding to signs that Wall Street analysts are waking up to the risks to the company. A 1.6% fall in Facebook shares in premarket trading brought the losses in the company's market value this week to US$57 billion, or 10.5% — a shock for a company that has risen more than 550% in value in the past five years. The suspended chief executive of Cambridge Analytica said in a secretly recorded video broadcast on Tuesday that his UK-based political consultancy's online campaign played a decisive role in US President Donald Trump's 2016 election victory. CEO Alexander Nix's comments, which could not be verified, were potentially a further problem for Facebook as it faces US and European scrutiny of Cambridge's improper use of 50 million Facebook users' personal data to target voters. ""We ... anticipate that the stock will be subject to further headline risk in the coming weeks as senior management is summoned to DC for hearings with lawmakers,"" Credit Suisse analyst Stephen Ju wrote in a note. Many analysts have now raised concerns that the incident will have a negative impact on user engagement with Facebook, potentially eating into its clout with advertisers. There are mixed views, however, on whether an aggressive regulatory response will materialize. So far, US and European lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how Cambridge Analytica gained access to user data in 2014 and why Facebook failed to inform its users, raising broader industry questions about consumer privacy. Cowen and Co analyst Paul Gallant said that Congress is unlikely to act on the issue. He said that despite allegations of Russian interference, a bill requiring Internet companies to disclose foreign buyers of political advertising is going nowhere. ""We don't expect Congress to enact online privacy legislation anytime soon, even if Democrats win the House this fall,"" Gallant said. On Tuesday another brokerage Evercore ISI cut their target by US$20 to US$205, their biggest reduction ever. Macquarie Research also trimmed its by US$5 to US$200, the first reduction since Oct 2012, five months after Facebook stock market launch. ""Investors now have to consider whether or not the company will conclude that it has grown in a manner that has proven to be untenable or whether it needs to significantly improve how it is managed,"" said Pivotal Research Group analyst Brian Wieser. Morgan Stanley analysts said they expected Facebook to bring changes to how data are made available to app developers and third parties, adding it could have a negative impact on Facebook Audience Network's ability to scale, although minimal.                "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w913]              UK had three contracts with Cambridge Analytica parent company     The British government had three contracts in the past with Cambridge Analytica's parent company SCL Group but they ended well before the current issues, a spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Wednesday. The contracts with were with the Ministry of Defence between 2014-2015, the Home Office (interior ministry) in 2009 and the Foreign Office in 2008-2009, the spokesman told reporters, adding there are no current contracts.           "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w914]        Bersatu's deputy strategist Wan Saiful Wan Jan has accused Umno of attempting to divert attention over the Cambridge Analytica (CA) controversy. ""They certainly are trying hard to manipulate the issue. Perhaps they are already well trained,"" he added in a statement. Wan Saiful said Umno chose to put its trust in the statement of the country representative of a company mired in scandal. He was referring to SCL Group Southeast Asia chief Azrin Zizal dismissing   his former boss and Bersatu deputy president Mukhriz Mahathir's denial   of involvement with Cambridge Analytica as a lie. ""Mukhriz said CA worked for BN. This again is not true... The 2013 election advice for Kedah was provided to Mukhriz personally. ""At no time has CA or its parent SCL Group ever worked for or been paid by BN or any part of the government of Malaysia,"" he had claimed. Mukhriz, on the other hand, accused Azrin of lying instead. Azrin was formerly Mukhriz's aide when the latter was deputy international trade and industry minister.  Contradicting own company Meanwhile, Wan Saiful pointed out that Azrin's statement on neither CA nor SCL working for BN or the Malaysian government appeared to contradict his own firm. ""It is as if the country rep is accusing himself of lying. He contradicted his own company. After all, it is CA who stated on their own website that 'CA supported Barisan Nasional...',"" he said. ""Umno operatives prefer to believe in a denial statement from a company accused of manipulating elections worldwide using data obtained without consent, whose leadership has been caught discussing bribery and sex as part of their business model. ""This clearly shows the type of people preferred by Umno. ""Obviously birds of a feather flock together. This is the same government who initially denied RM2.6 billion in a personal bank account before finally relenting and calling it a donation. ""This is the same government who says the rest of the world is wrong about 1MDB, and has declared that anything different from their official account is fake news,"" he added. Wan Saiful also noted that there is still no assurance from Umno that it would not manipulate the coming general election. Cambridge Analytica has been accused of abusing personal user data mined from social media companies for smear campaigns and manipulating elections .  When asked by Malaysiakini if SCL Group or Cambridge Analytica was engaged by any political party for the upcoming general election, Azrin declined to comment .  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w915] The links between Cambridge Analytica, Brexit campaign group        The links between Cambridge Analytica, Brexit campaign group        British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica (CA) lies at the centre of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 US presidential election campaign . However, the analytics firm is also under scrutiny over campaigning for the 2016 referendum when Britons voted to leave the European Union. CA and the leaders of the Leave.EU group have previously boasted about working together during the Brexit campaign. However, they have since retracted their claims, saying no contract was signed and no work was completed. Parliament is investigating the links between CA and Leave.EU as part of an investigation into fake news. Did CA and Leave.EU work together? Arron Banks, the co-founder of Leave.EU, said in a book that in October 2015 his group hired CA, a company that uses “big data and advanced psychographics” to influence people. In a November 2015, Leave.EU said on its website that CA “will be helping us map the British electorate and what they believe in, enabling us to better engage with voters”. In the same month, CA director Brittany Kaiser spoke at a Leave.EU news conference. She said her organisation would be “running large-scale research of the nation to really understand why people are interested in staying in or out of the EU”. In February 2016, CA chief executive Alexander Nix wrote in Campaign magazine that his company was working for Leave.EU. “We have already helped supercharge Leave.EU’s social media campaign by ensuring the right messages are getting to the right voters online,” said Nix, who was suspended by the company this week. Leave.EU’s communications director Andy Wigmore also said on Twitter last year that his campaign group had used the company. “You should use Cambridge Analytics,” he said, adding that he could “highly recommend them”. What does Leave.EU say now? Banks says CA sought work with the Leave.EU before the referendum but that ultimately it never did any - paid or otherwise - for the campaign. “We did have dealings with CA – they put forward a pitch that went into the designation document submitted to the electoral commission,” Banks told Reuters. No work was done with CA because Leave.EU did not win the designation as the official leave campaign and due to concerns about the consultancy, Banks said. When asked if Leave.EU paid or accepted any services from CA, Banks said: “No benefit in kind, no data, no nothing.” Banks told a parliamentary committee earlier this month that when he referred to CA being “hired” in his book this was a reference to the intention to work them. What does CA say now? Nix told a parliamentary committee last month that he contacted Banks and Wigmore and their statements were not true. The article written in the Campaign magazine was a mistake and “drafted by a slightly overzealous PR consultant”, he said. This “referenced work that we hoped and intended to undertake for the campaign. Subsequently, work was never undertaken. The moment that that statement went out we were absolutely crystal clear to all the media outlets that we were not involved and that it had been released in error,” he said. Bersatu mulls legal action against PMO, Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica tight-lipped on GE14 engagements Mukhriz and ex-aide accuse each other of lying over Cambridge Analytica Mukhriz slams 'misleading' PMO, says diverting from 'illegal tactics' PMO claims Cambridge Analytica reported directly to Mukhriz Granny’s blood pressure rises due to CA controversy Harapan MPs: BN-CA link reeks of ‘foreign interference’ Cambridge Analytica - Muhyiddin in the dark, says Najib does things on his own Mukhriz pleads ignorance on Cambridge Analytica’s role in Kedah Did you manipulate GE13, Bersatu’s Wan Saiful asks Najib ‘Sex, lies and bribes’ - Trump’s election consultants admit to working in M’sia Zuckerberg says FB made mistakes on user data, vows curbs CEO outlines steps Facebook will take after data breach Cambridge Analytica denies entrapping, says ‘grossly misrepresented’ Suspended Cambridge Analytica boss boasts of influencing US polls Facebook hires independent auditors to probe alleged data breach UK authorities seek warrant to search Cambridge Analytica offices Factbox: What is Cambridge Analytica and what did it do?    "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w916]   WhatsApp Co-Founder Says It Is Time To Delete Facebook  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w917]   Mukhriz's Former Aide Calls Him Out For Lying About Using Cambridge Analytica    																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w918]  How FB's data sharing went from feature to bug  An investigation has been launched into a possible data breach affecting millions of Facebook users. FILE PIC IN 2007, a young Mark Zuckerberg stood on a stage in San Francisco and announced that Facebook was throwing open its doors. No longer, he said, would Facebook be a closed-off software product like every other social network. Instead, it would become an open platform and invite outside developers to build apps and programmes on top of it. “We want to make Facebook into something of an operating system,” Zuckerberg said. At the time, the announcement drew little notice outside the programming world. Developers quickly went to work making fun and quirky apps that plugged into Facebook. Early hits included Rendezbook, a kind of proto-Tinder that allowed users to match with each other for “random flings”, and CampusRank, which allowed college students to nominate their peers for yearbook-type awards. Later, popular games like FarmVille arrived, and apps like Tinder and Spotify began allowing their users to log in using their Facebook credentials. In some ways, it was a fair trade. Facebook got to weave itself more deeply into users’ Internet habits, and the outside app developers got access to a big audience and data about their users. In all, millions of apps have been created with Facebook’s open platform tools. Through it all, Facebook’s users were mostly unfazed. Sure, these apps collected data about their lives. But, they seemed convenient and harmless, and, really, what could go wrong? Today, more than a decade later, the consequences of Facebook’s laissez-faire approach are becoming clear. Over the weekend, The New York Times reported that Cambridge Analytica, a British consulting firm, improperly acquired private data about 50 million Facebook users, and used it to target voters on behalf of the Donald Trump campaign during the United States presidential election in 2016. What happened with Cambridge Analytica wasn’t technically a data breach, since this trove of personal information wasn’t stolen from Facebook’s servers. Rather, it was given away freely to the maker of a Facebook personality quiz app called “thisisyourdigitallife”. That app, which was developed by a University of Cambridge professor, collected data about the 270,000 people who installed it, along with data about their Facebook friends, totalling 50 million people in all. The professor, Alexander Kogan, then gave the data he had harvested to Cambridge Analytica. Technically, only this last step violated Facebook’s rules, which prohibit selling or giving away data collected by a third-party app. The rest was business as usual. Third-party apps collect vast amounts of detailed personal information about Facebook users every day, including their ages, location, pages they’ve liked and groups they belong to. Users can opt out of sharing specific pieces of information, but it’s unclear how many do. This kind of broad data collection is not only allowed but encouraged by Facebook, which wants to keep developers building on top of its platform. Permissiveness is a feature, as they say, not a bug. But, in the wake of incidents like the data leak to Cambridge Analytica, some are questioning the costs of such loose policies on an influential platform with 2.2 billion registered users. “It seems insane that you can make haphazard decisions about so many people’s data,” said Can Duruk, a technology consultant and software engineer. Facebook, he said, was “extremely lax with what kind of data they allowed people to get”. In a Facebook post on Monday, Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice-president, said that thinking may have been a mistake. “We thought that every app could be social. Your calendar should have your events and your friends birthdays, your maps should know where your friends live, your address book should show their pictures. “It was a reasonable vision but it didn’t materialise the way we had hoped.” In 2015, Facebook removed the ability of third-party developers to collect detailed information about the friends of users who had installed an app, citing privacy concerns. (Cambridge Analytica’s data trove, which included this type of information, was gathered in 2014, before the change). Facebook also removed tools used by developers to create games and quizzes that barraged users with annoying notifications. But, the core functions of Facebook’s open platform tool are intact. There are still many third-party apps like “thisisyourdigitallife” out there, vacuuming up data about Facebook users. That data doesn’t disappear, and Facebook has no real recourse to stop it from falling into the wrong hands. Not all open data access is used irresponsibly. Researchers and non-governmental organisations have used Facebook’s third-party development tools to respond to natural disasters. And, many of the functions that Internet users depend on — for example, the ability to import their digital address books into a new messaging app — are possible, thanks only to the tools that allow for third-party development known as application programming interfaces, or APIs. “Everything we depend on uses APIs,” said Kin Lane, a software engineer who maintains a website called API Evangelist. “They’re in your home, in your business, in your car. It’s how these platforms innovate and do cool, interesting things.” In Facebook’s case, permissive data policies were also good for business. Third-party developers built millions of apps on top of Facebook’s platform, giving Facebook users more reasons to spend time on the site and generating more ad revenue for the company. Restricting access to data would limit Facebook’s usefulness to developers and could drive them to build on a rival platform instead, making those products better. In this context, it’s even less surprising that Kogan and Cambridge Analytica were able to use a silly personality quiz to collect information about millions of Americans. After all, why else would the quiz be there? "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w919] Visitors at the Commonwealth Games in Australia could have their Facebook data mined in exchange for free and fast wifi. Those who do not want to log on via Facebook can still get free wifi, but it will be slower with lower data limits.  Visitors at the Commonwealth Games in Australia could have their Facebook data mined in exchange for free and fast wifi, although authorities Thursday insisted no private or personal information will be stored. The local Gold Coast council is offering a service up to 10 times normal speed after laying new fibre cables to coincide with the multi-sport event next month, which is contested between nations that are members of the Commonwealth. But there’s a catch. To use it, you must log on through a Facebook account, allowing the council to capture data, which it says will be used to help shape future tourism marketing campaigns. “We will be able to monitor the people, where they come from, that is, the percentage of tourists coming from China, Japan, Southeast Asia and locals, and the timing of it as well,” Mayor Tom Tate told ABC radio. The move comes as Facebook is embroiled in a snowballing scandal over the hijacking of personal data from millions of its users. It erupted when a whistleblower revealed that British data consultant Cambridge Analytica had created psychological profiles on 50 million Facebook users via a personality prediction app. The app was downloaded by 270,000 people, but also scooped up their friends’ data without consent – as was possible under Facebook’s rules at the time. The Gold Coast plan has outraged the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties, which said privacy laws prohibited any data collection unless it was necessary for council purposes. Its president Michael Cope said while the council may claim it was simply for tourism purposes, depending on the Facebook privacy settings of those using the wifi, the council could collect a lot of other information. “The data that might be collected by council, depending on a person’s Facebook privacy settings, would include how many friends they have, who their friends are, what they’ve liked on Facebook and their photos,” he said. “Does the council warn wifi users before they sign up, that it will be collecting their Facebook data?” In a statement to AFP, the council said the purpose was simply to “gather publicly available information about age, gender and nationality for the purpose of monitoring the use patterns.” “The city will not be mining any private data,” it said. Asked what data would be stored, they replied: “Only anonymised and aggregated information about age, gender and nationality – the city will not be storing any private or personal data.” Games visitors who do not want to log on via Facebook can still get free wifi, but it will be slower with lower data limits. The Games run from April 4 to 15, with thousands of athletes, support staff and fans due to attend."																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w920]Zuckerberg Promises to Alert All Whose Data May've Been Exposed    Mark Zuckerberg, breaking a media silence on the latest consumer imbroglio to engulf the social media company, promised to inform each and every one of his two billion-plus users if there’s a chance their personal data was compromised. In an interview with CNN, the billionaire chief executive officer said he would appear before Congress if necessary, to testify on revelations that a researcher harvested data on 50 million and sold it on surreptitiously to consultancy Cambridge Analytica. That bombshell has since wiped $45 billion off Facebook’s value, drawn regulatory scrutiny on two continents and ignited a #deletefacebook campaign. Zuckerberg finally spoke out Wednesday -- after staying mum for days -- in interviews with several media outlets. It was more important to make sure that whatever he voiced was 100-percent accurate, he told the New York Times. Facebook will “tell everyone whose data was affected by one of these rogue apps,” Zuckerberg said in an interview on CNN. The number of apps Facebook will attempt to ferret out could be in the thousands, he told the newspaper separately. “We’re going to be conservative on that and try to tell anyone whose data may have been affected, even if we don’t know for certain that they were.” Zuckerberg wrote a blog post earlier outlining steps to make sure such a leak doesn’t happen again. And he said Facebook is improving markedly in handling foreign interference in elections, particularly as the 2018 U.S. mid-terms approach. But some remain skeptical the company’s doing enough, and it’s uncertain how much momentum #deletefacebook has gained, though Zuckerberg told the Times he hadn’t “seen a meaningful number of people act on that.” Zuckerberg’s Response Doesn’t ‘Cut It,’ Facebook’s Critics Say Then there’s American lawmakers. One of the central questions that’s arisen since the crisis emerged is whether Zuckerberg would be willing to lay out for Congress exactly what happened. “I’m happy to if it’s the right thing to do,” Zuckerberg said.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w922] EU: new rules will make data breaches 'very expensive' for firms EU: new rules will make data breaches 'very expensive' for firms  Vera Jourova, EU Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality, said she is waiting ""impatiently"" for answers about the Facebook data breach EU justice commissioner Vera Jourova warned Wednesday that data protection scandals such as that currently engulfing Facebook would become ""very expensive"" for companies from May under new EU regulations. ""If some company tried this in Europe after May 2018, very likely this drastic sanction will be applied,"" said Jourova, who is in charge of consumer and personal data protection, at the end of a visit to Washington. Facebook is under fire on both sides of the Atlantic following revelations that British data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica exploited the personal data of 50 million users of the social network. On May 25, the General Data Protection Regulation will come into effect in the EU, strengthening the protection of EU citizens' personal details. It will apply to all companies, including those outside of the EU. The regulation, which increases sanctions power, is not retroactive -- but the commissioner promised that ""GDPR makes European Union the space, the territory where cheating will be very, very expensive."" The commissioner did not meet with a Facebook representative specifically on the data breach matter, but she did participate in a roundtable on another subject with a representative of the company. Jourova added she is waiting ""impatiently"" for answers. ""How is it possible that the people who didn't have the slightest clue became objects of such a harsh manipulation?"" she said. 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w924]    Cambridge Analytica's India connection: IT Minister Prasad accuses Congress of links with the firm Cambridge Analytica’s India connection: IT Minister Prasad accuses Congress of links with the firm Reacting swiftly to Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari’s statement calling for investigation by Election Commission to see if any political party had links with disgraced firm Cambridge Analytica, Union minister for Information Technology in Modi government, Ravi Shankar Prasad accused Congress of having links with the concern. IT minister’s reaction would seem unusual, especially in view of suspicions expressed about BJP’s suspected links with Facebook and its role in emotional manipulation of voters. Cambridge Analytica (CA) has been in the eye of the storm following an investigation by Britain’s Channel 4 which alleged that the company harvested private data of Facebook users in 2014. It is accused of working with Donald Trump’s election team by harvesting millions of Facebook profiles of US voters and using them to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. This is done by identifying people’s emotional vulnerabilities, likes and dislikes and building a campaign around such issues. Emotional manipulation is the key. CA is now facing a government search of its London office, questions from US state authorities, and a demand by Facebook that it submit to a forensic audit. IT minister Prasad, alleging that the Congress committed data theft and manipulated data to win elections, questioned the role of CA in the social media management of Congress and party president Rahul Gandhi. Manish Tewari’s tweet only said the Election Commission “should enquire/recommend (an) investigation (into) what services & to whom they were offering” these services in India. Congress party’s social media head Divya Spandana refuted Prasad’s charge. “News about Congress engaged/engaging with Cambridge Analytica is absolutely false,” she tweeted. Spandana further said the BJP is trying to distract from the controversy over the killing of 30 Indian hostages by ISIS in Iraq. Prasad accused the Congress party of sharing the private data of Indian citizens with CA. “Will the Congress Party now depend upon data manipulation and data theft to win elections?” he asked. “This is not just a question of Congress Party’s association with a rogue data analysis firm but it is a question of free and fair elections in India and democratic values of our country,” he added. Prasad also said that though he is in favour of social media, however, its misuse will not be tolerated, especially by foreign firms. The reaction by Modi’s minister may appear abnormally strong and harsh, in view of the fact that reports mention both BJP and Congress links. Further, other reports suggest a deeper link of BJP with outfits playing the game of analysing, influencing and targeting masses for propaganda and political purposes. Channel 4’s expose of CA mentioning conversations with its Chief Executive Alexander Nix said that they boasted who boasted that they had successfully executed such operations across the world, and mentioned India as one of the countries where they had been active: “In the meetings, the executives boasted that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL) had worked in more than two hundred elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India and Argentina.” Nix claimed they work under stealth in many countries, using front organisations or subcontractors to prevent their presence from being detected. In India, SCL partners with a company named Ovleno Business Intelligence (OBI), which lists BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (United) as its political clients on its website, said a report in The Indian Express, which said OBI is owned by Amrish Tyagi, son of the senior JD(U) leader K C Tyagi. When contacted by IE, Tyagi said that OBI had not done any social media or digital work in India, instead it had worked with various political parties on the ground. For the BJP it had done booth profiling for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in 2012. For the same elections, he said his organisation had done an opinion poll for a news channel. For Congress, he said he had done ground surveys for Youth Congress elections in Jharkhand in 2011 and 2012. And for his father’s party, he said he had done ground research in 2010. An earlier report in the magazine India Legal (IL) with credits to GreatGameIndia, “ Did Facebook help Modi create Troll Armies, influence voters in 2014 polls ?” delved  deeper into BJP links Facebook and its use. It mentioned a Bloomberg report that revealed how a secret unit of Facebook helped create troll armies for governments around the world including India for digital propaganda to influence elections. The report said Facebook actively works with political parties and leaders including those who use the platform to stifle opposition — sometimes with the aid of “troll armies” that spread misinformation and extremist ideologies. The initiative is run by a little-known Facebook global government and politics team led from Washington by Katie Harbath, a former Republican digital strategist. Importantly, the report mentioned that they worked on former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s 2008 presidential campaign as well as 2014 Indian elections . In India (and many other countries as well) the unit’s employees have become de facto campaign workers. In the U.S., the unit embedded employees in Trump’s campaign. In India, the company helped develop the online presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who now has more Facebook followers than any other world leader, said the IL report. India is arguably Facebook’s most important market recently edging out the US as the company’s biggest. The number of users here is growing twice as fast as in the US, and that is not counting the 200 million people who use the company’s WhatsApp messaging service in India, more than anywhere else on the globe. By the time of India’s 2014 elections, Facebook had for months been working with several campaigns. Modi relied heavily on Facebook and WhatsApp to recruit volunteers who in turn spread his message on social media. Since his election, Modi’s Facebook followers have risen to 43 million, almost twice Trump’s count. Within weeks of Modi’s election, Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg both visited India as it was rolling out a critical free internet service that was later curbed due to massive protests. Harbath and her team have also travelled to India, offering a series of workshops and sessions that have trained more than 6,000 government officials. As Modi’s social media reach grew, his followers increasingly turned to Facebook and WhatsApp to target harassment campaigns against his political rivals. India has become a hotbed for fake news, with one hoax story this year that circulated on WhatsApp leading to mob beatings resulting in several deaths. The nation has also become an increasingly dangerous place for opposition parties and reporters. However, it’s not just Modi or the Bharatiya Janata Party who have utilized Facebook’s services. The company says it offers the same tools and services to all candidates and governments regardless of political affiliation, and even to civil society groups that may have a lesser voice. While noting the incidents of mob lynching, the IL report said such incidents would not have had such a rapid and massive effect if the youth had not had access to Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and other social media that allowed the fake news industry to organise and share made-up videos and information. More importantly, the report said this takes a totally new dimension now that it has been revealed that Facebook & WhatsApp itself colluded with the establishment in creating such “troll armies” for digital propaganda, resulting directly into violence on Indian soil. The report called for a thorough investigation into Facebook’s interference in India’s elections. 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w925]  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																				
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w926] Ravi Shankar Prasad calls into question Congress links with Cambridge Analytica, warns Facebook of stringent action  Ravi Shankar Prasad calls into question Congress links with Cambridge Analytica, warns Facebook of stringent action   BusinessToday.In    New Delhi     Last Updated: March 21, 2018  | 18:21 IST IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad talking to reporters at Parliament House complex on Wednesday. Image: PTI Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasasd opened fire against Congress on Wednesday for its alleged ties with Cambridge Analytica. The UK-based data mining firm has been in the eye of storm for manipulating US presidential elections in 2016 to help Donald Trump win. The Congress has been reportedly in touch with Cambridge Analytica to plan the election campaign for the party in the upcoming 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Prasad sought answers from Congress as to how much data trade it has made with Cambridge Analytica considering the recent elections in North East and Gujarat and upcoming polls in Karnataka. ""My question to Congress party is whether to win elections, Congress will depend on data manipulation and theft of data. What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in social media profile of Rahul Gandhi,"" Ravi Shankar Prasad said quoting reports while talking to reporters at the Parliament House complex. Based on media reports, Prasad alleged that the company has been accused of using bribes, sex workers to entrap politicians and stealing data from Facebook. UK and British media reports suggest that Cambridge Analytica used data mined from Facebook in the voter research it conducted for President Donald Trump during the 2016 elections campaign. Meanwhile, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala today denied that Congress party has taken any services from data analytics company Cambridge Analytica. Returning fire, he quoted information from the data mining firm's website that BJP and JD(U) had hired Cambridge Analytica for a electorate analysis for Bihar Assembly election in 2010. As of now, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), an independent government body charged with insuring that companies abide by their own privacy policies, is looking at whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree after media reports alleged that it had handed the data of millions of users to a political consultancy. The IT Minister also warned Facebook and other social media platforms against any attempt to influence the electoral process in India through undesirable means. Vowing support to freedom of speech and expression, Prasad said strict action will be taken against any manipulation of the electoral process. ""...let me make it very, very clear, we fully support freedom of press, speech and expression; we fully support free exchange of ideas on social media. But any attempt, covert or overt, by social media, including Facebook, of trying to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be appreciated nor be tolerated,"" Prasad said. Prasad cautioned the social media giant and its CEO Mark Zuckerberg of repercussions under IT Act in case of any data breach came to light. Presently 20 million Indians have accounts on Facebook, making it the second largest market for the social media giant after the US. ""Mr Mark Zuckerberg, you better note the observation of the IT Minister of India. We welcome the FB profile in India, but if any data theft of Indians is done through the collusion of FB system, it shall not be tolerated. We have got stringent power in the IT Act, we shall use it, including summoning you in India,"" Prasad warned. On the question of whether the government would investigate data usage by Facebook, Prasad said that India had a regulator in the form of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), and in case of any specific complaints, the same would be taken under a structured investigation. ""We have got very robust mechanism available, we will look into it. But today, this very stern observation I gave that let my warning be heard across the Atlantic far away in California,"" he said. Indian government and Facebook have had their tussles in the past. In 2016, TRAI had issued regulations on discriminatory pricing over internet access that had led to ban of platforms like Facebook's Free Basics. 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w927]   Here’s What the Websites of Cambridge Analytica, Partner Firms Say About Ties to BJP and Congress  Here’s What the Websites of Cambridge Analytica, Partner Firms Say About Ties to BJP and Congress PM Modi Unveils Mahatma Gandhi's Plaque With Former Singaporean Premier Bihar Result 2018: Bihar 10th Result Will be Declared on June 20.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																															
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
*******************************************																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w928]  Start GDPR cookies policy  	 By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our 	 Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. 	  End GDPR cookies policy MAIN WARP INNER HEADER HEADER TOP PANEL TOP MENU Home Markets Companies Opinion Specials PF Portfolio My Page Multimedia IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Photo Gallery Video Gallery Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls TOP MENU END BS APPS  iPad iPhone Android Wap BS PRODUCTS  Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books Today's Paper  BS E-Paper Bs Learning 			 	"  , Change Password Subscribe Sign out Change Password Manage My Account Sign out SIGN IN Subscribe                TOP PANEL END LOGO BS LOGO BS LOGO END LOGO END SECOND MENU SECOND MENU END Latest News Ticker Start JUST IN   "														Kumaraswamy bans mobile phones during official meetings													 														"Spicejet flight suffers tyre burst, passengers safe"													 														Cricket doesn't get affected with betting by Bollywood personality: Ex-BCCI official													 														Arun Yadav defends Kamal Nath over his letter to Rahul Gandhi													 														No casualty in Mumbai fire													 														Congress-JD(S) alliance to fight 2019 polls together													 														Pradhan condemns Chhattisgarh CM's Mahanadi remark													 														CBI summons Chidambaram in INX media case													 														Our govt. wants to grow beyond casteism: Adityanath													 														ED books AirAsia officials for money laundering													   News Stock Quote Authors 					 Topic Video     						   						 						   						   						"   Latest News Ticker end Latest News Ticker Start Latest News Ticker end HEADER END You are here: Home » News-ANI » National HEADER END Change for Market Tags START Change for Market Tags END Country Code=US HEADER END MAIN CONTENT AREA /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 Move Video Embed code Top if Exist Start Move Video Embed code Top if Exist End MAIN CONTENT AREA END FOOTER MORE ON MARKETS: LEFT CONTENT Quick Links Stock Market Live Portfolio Commodity Market Upcoming IPO Personal Finance Stock Market News Derivatives Mutual Funds Gold Price Sensex RIGHT CONTENT Browse STOCK Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z RIGHT CONTENT END Index Stocks Adani Ports Asian Paints Axis Bank B P C L Bajaj Auto Bajaj Finance Ltd Bajaj Finserv Bharti Airtel Bharti Infra. Cipla Coal India Dr Reddy's Labs Eicher Motors GAIL (India) Grasim Inds H D F C HCL Technologies HDFC Bank Hero Motocorp Hind. Unilever Hindalco Inds. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd ICICI Bank Indiabulls Housing Finance Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. IndusInd Bank Infosys ITC Kotak Mah. Bank Larsen & Toubro Lupin M & M Maruri Suzuki NTPC O N G C Power Grid Corpn Reliance Inds. St Bk of India Sun Pharma. Inds. Tata Motors Tata Motors-DVR Tata Steel TCS Tech Mahindra Titan Company UltraTech Cement Ltd UPL Ltd Wipro Yes Bank Zee Entertainment RIGHT CONTENT END TRENDING ON BS #Markets #BSWeekend #BSTech #GST #BSSpecial  Copyrights © 2018 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.  From BS Website Home Companies Markets Opinion Politics Technology Specials Personal Finance Latest News Today's Paper RBI Policy General News General Videos General Photo Gallery Events Authors Education About us About Us Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy Disclaimer Investor Communication List of our GST registration number Support & Contact Partner with Us Careers Advertise with Us Contact Us Feedback Browser Support Sitemap Subscribe E-Paper BS Magazines Portfolio Tracker BS Products Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books B2B Connect iPhone iPad android wap BS Banking Round Table 2017 BS Fund Cafe 2017 Budget Insight Out  Election Karnataka Election 2018 IPL ipl 2018 Connect with BS Facebook Google+ Linkedin Twitter Youtube RSS  google_left_120x600 google_right_120x600    Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of ""Business Standard Premium Services"" As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include: Access Exclusive content - articles, features & opinion pieces Weekly Industry/Genre specific newsletters - Choose multiple industries/genres Access to 17 plus years of content archives Set Stock price alerts for your portfolio and watch list and get them delivered to your e-mail box End of day news alerts on 5 companies (via email) NEW : Get seamless access to WSJ.com at a great price. No additional sign-up required.           Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS.  Kindly visit the to discover the benefits of this programme.  Enjoy Reading!  Team Business Standard     Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 Notifications For Free Users FOOTER END Google Analytics Start Google Analytics End Comscore start Comscore End RUM Wrapper from Akamai's start RUM Wrapper from Akamai's End Facebook Pixel Code  End Facebook Pixel Code Subscription band - Start Subscription band - Start "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w929] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w930]  India warns on misuse of Social media following FB's data breach | South Asia | Devdiscourse   ABOUT CAREER ADVERTISEMENT TEAM PARTNERS CONTACT US CONNECT    Global Edition Central Africa Edition East Africa Edition North America Edition Southern Africa Edition West Africa Edition South Asia Edition East and South East Asia Edition Pacific Edition Europe and Central Asia Edition Latin America and Caribbean Edition Middle East and North Africa Edition       SUBSCRIBE     NEWS BLOGS EVENTS   REGISTER  *For Customized Alerts   Log in       Give Feedback  Name Email Message Submit  Home News Article India warns on misuse of Social media following FB's data breach India's information technology minister on Wednesday warned against any abuse of social media in elections.    ~ Copyright (C) 2014 Media.net Advertising FZ-LLC All Rights Reserved   Cambridge Analytica has denied media accusations and said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. (Image Credit: Reuters) India's information technology minister on Wednesday warned against any abuse of social media in elections, following reports that a British consultancy improperly accessed information on millions of Facebook users to target U.S. voters. India is due to hold a national election in 2019 and there are several states electing new assemblies this year and the next. ""Abuse of social media including Facebook cannot be allowed to impact the fairness of elections,"" Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters. Also Read |  Facebook's data breach to be investigated by the UK ""In the wake of recent data theft from Facebook, let my stern warning be heard across the Atlantic, far away in California. Any covert or overt attempt to misuse social media including Facebook to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be tolerated nor be permitted."" An India-based spokeswoman for Menlo Park, California-headquartered Facebook did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. Cambridge Analytica has denied media accusations and said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. Facebook has said it has tightened its controls on such practices since it discovered the alleged abuses by Cambridge Analytica in 2015, but the issue has continued to rock the companies involved as well as some political parties across the world. Tags Facebook data breach Donald trump Modi PM Modi India elections Cambridge Analytica Ravi Shankar Prasad Country   ~ Copyright (C) 2014 Media.net Advertising FZ-LLC All Rights Reserved    Venezuela releases 39 prisoners of politics  Cleveland Cavaliers center Tristan Thompson fined USD 25,000 by NBA  Back to Athens cultural event starts in Greece  Tim Anderson's two-out, two-run triple in sixth inning broke open tie game  More...   HOME ABOUT CAREER ADVERTISEMENT TEAM PARTNERS CONTACT US  SECTORS Agro-Forestry Art & Culture Digital Development Economy Education Energy & Extractives Finance Governance Health Environment & Natural Resources Social & Gender Sports Transport Urban Development WASH  EDITIONS Central Africa East Africa North America Southern Africa West Africa South Asia East and South East Asia Pacific Europe and Central Asia Latin America and Caribbean Middle East and North Africa TAGS OTHER PRODUCTS VITHI VYOMA VYAPAD IDEA-KM IDEA-M&E;   Email: info@devdiscourse.com  Phone: +91-130-6444012, +91-7027739813, 14, 15  |  |  |   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w931] HTML cambridge analytica: Cambridge Analytica's Indian partner's site suspended | India News - Times of India 			 Server: 133 [if lte IE 8]>  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																			
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w932]  Start GDPR cookies policy  	 By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our 	 Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. 	  End GDPR cookies policy MAIN WARP INNER HEADER HEADER TOP PANEL TOP MENU Home Markets Companies Opinion Specials PF Portfolio My Page Multimedia IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Photo Gallery Video Gallery Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls TOP MENU END BS APPS  iPad iPhone Android Wap BS PRODUCTS  Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books Today's Paper  BS E-Paper Bs Learning 			 	"  , Change Password Subscribe Sign out Change Password Manage My Account Sign out SIGN IN Subscribe                TOP PANEL END LOGO BS LOGO BS LOGO END LOGO END SECOND MENU SECOND MENU END Latest News Ticker Start JUST IN   "														Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal breaks Twitter silence													 														Singhvi's 'Better India' dream in line with PM Modi's 'New India': Naidu													 														Pranab's gameplan: Former president to address RSS cadres in Nagpur													 														"British jailed Gandhi, Nehru in same prisons: Modi told May on Mallya"													 														"Bhaichung's political party, Teesta water sharing issue, and more"													 														Why is Rahul Gandhi delaying formation of Congress Working Committee?													 														Karnataka's new chief minister H D Kumaraswamy is a superstitious man													 														Rajnath Singh first BJP leader to congratulate Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy													 														Aam Aadmi Party to support anti-BJP candidates in UP bypolls													 														Naveen Patnaik is taking no chances for the 2019 Odisha election													   News Stock Quote Authors 					 Topic Video     						   						 						   						   						"   Latest News Ticker end Latest News Ticker Start Latest News Ticker end HEADER END You are here: Home » Opinion » Chinese HEADER END Change for Market Tags START Change for Market Tags END Country Code=US HEADER END MAIN CONTENT AREA /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 Move Video Embed code Top if Exist Start Move Video Embed code Top if Exist End MAIN CONTENT AREA END FOOTER MORE ON MARKETS: LEFT CONTENT Quick Links Stock Market Live Portfolio Commodity Market Upcoming IPO Personal Finance Stock Market News Derivatives Mutual Funds Gold Price Sensex RIGHT CONTENT Browse STOCK Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z RIGHT CONTENT END Index Stocks Adani Ports Asian Paints Axis Bank B P C L Bajaj Auto Bajaj Finance Ltd Bajaj Finserv Bharti Airtel Bharti Infra. Cipla Coal India Dr Reddy's Labs Eicher Motors GAIL (India) Grasim Inds H D F C HCL Technologies HDFC Bank Hero Motocorp Hind. Unilever Hindalco Inds. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd ICICI Bank Indiabulls Housing Finance Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. IndusInd Bank Infosys ITC Kotak Mah. Bank Larsen & Toubro Lupin M & M Maruri Suzuki NTPC O N G C Power Grid Corpn Reliance Inds. St Bk of India Sun Pharma. Inds. Tata Motors Tata Motors-DVR Tata Steel TCS Tech Mahindra Titan Company UltraTech Cement Ltd UPL Ltd Wipro Yes Bank Zee Entertainment RIGHT CONTENT END TRENDING ON BS #Markets #BSWeekend #BSTech #GST #BSSpecial  Copyrights © 2018 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.  From BS Website Home Companies Markets Opinion Politics Technology Specials Personal Finance Latest News Today's Paper RBI Policy General News General Videos General Photo Gallery Events Authors Education About us About Us Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy Disclaimer Investor Communication List of our GST registration number Support & Contact Partner with Us Careers Advertise with Us Contact Us Feedback Browser Support Sitemap Subscribe E-Paper BS Magazines Portfolio Tracker BS Products Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books B2B Connect iPhone iPad android wap BS Banking Round Table 2017 BS Fund Cafe 2017 Budget Insight Out  Election Karnataka Election 2018 IPL ipl 2018 Connect with BS Facebook Google+ Linkedin Twitter Youtube RSS     Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of ""Business Standard Premium Services"" As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include: Access Exclusive content - articles, features & opinion pieces Weekly Industry/Genre specific newsletters - Choose multiple industries/genres Access to 17 plus years of content archives Set Stock price alerts for your portfolio and watch list and get them delivered to your e-mail box End of day news alerts on 5 companies (via email) NEW : Get seamless access to WSJ.com at a great price. No additional sign-up required.           Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS.  Kindly visit the to discover the benefits of this programme.  Enjoy Reading!  Team Business Standard     Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 Notifications For Free Users FOOTER END Google Analytics Start Google Analytics End Comscore start Comscore End RUM Wrapper from Akamai's start RUM Wrapper from Akamai's End Facebook Pixel Code  End Facebook Pixel Code Subscription band - Start Subscription band - Start "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w933] HTML for-mobile-apps Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag     Begin Kiosked End Kiosked      																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w934]  Prasad warns FB of strong action if it sways electoral process    Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code google plus mobile recommendation Sumo me sharing script Taboola Header Code Taboola Header Code Ends   The line below starts the conditional comment [if IE]>  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w935]   The above 3 meta tags *must* come first in the head; any other head content must come *after* these tags BJP wags finger at FB & Cong - Telegraph India Bootstrap HTML5 shim and Respond.js for IE8 support of HTML5 elements and media queries WARNING: Respond.js doesn't work if you view the page via file:// [if lt IE 9]> 	  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w936]   Data privacy: Facebook May Dodge EU Bullet As New Data Rules Come Too Late - Bloomberg Quint     top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings     Article details  Stephanie Bodoni  March 23 2018, 11:21AM  March 21 2018, 10:00AM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line (Bloomberg) -- Markets had already delivered their verdict before the European Union’s data privacy watchdogs could express outrage toward Facebook Inc. And while the social media giant lost as much as $60 billion in value earlier this week, Facebook is set to dodge tough new EU sanctions even if any violations in the Cambridge Analytica scandal are proven, EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said in an interview with Bloomberg TV from Washington. The new EU rules in place from May 25 will enable national regulators to “impose much higher sanctions, which cannot be applied in this current case, because there’s no retro-activity possible,” Jourova said.   Fining powers currently vary from state to state, with possible sanctions in the U.K., where the regulator is investigating, capped at 500,000 pounds ($706,000). The new rules can lead to fines as much as 4 percent of global annual sales. In the meantime, EU authorities will investigate “to better understand what exactly happened and who should be blamed for what” in the wake of allegations, she said on Bloomberg Markets with Vonnie Quinn and Mark Barton. Vast Swathes Regulators are examining whether vast swathes of data was illegally held by Cambridge Analytica after it was obtained from a researcher who shared the data without the social network’s permission. According to published news reports, Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan created a personality-analysis app that was used by 270,000 Facebook users, who in turn gave the app permission to access data on themselves and their friends, ultimately exposing a network of 50 million. Jourova said she’s trying to meet with Facebook to ask “serious questions, especially on how this could have happened, whether they had neglected the privacy rules, whether they were careful enough.” She also met with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, which is said to be investigating whether Facebook violated terms of a 2011 consent decree with its handling of the data that was transferred to Cambridge Analytica. In a tweet after the Wednesday meeting, Jourova said she had met with FTC Commissioner Terrell McSweeny and “was reassured that they take all the allegations on the #Facebook scandal seriously.” ‘Far-Reaching’ EU privacy watchdogs on Wednesday vowed to collaborate in getting to the bottom of the “very serious allegation with far-reaching consequences.” The U.K. regulator, which is leading the probe into British-based Cambridge Analytica is seeking a warrant to search the firm, a process her office said they’re hoping to complete Wednesday. “I’m not happy at all about this case, because in my view this is not only about data protection breaches, this is about a threat to democracy,” Jourova told Bloomberg TV. “This will serve as a precedent for the future.” Leaders from the 28-nation bloc will also discuss the matter at a regularly scheduled summit at the end of this week. Jourova said this is happening on the request of French President Emmanuel Macron. Despite strong words by EU authorities in the last few days, they are currently virtually toothless in the face of technology giants with revenues measured in the billions of dollars. It’s a David versus Goliath scenario, where they often have to rely on local courts to take action in dragged-out procedures that lose most of their effect by the time there’s a decision. New Rules This will only change at the end of May, when the new EU privacy rules kick in across all member nations. Serious violations can from then on be punished with massive fines, and even U.S. companies that use or process EU user-data will be covered. Cambridge Analytica has said that it’s been in touch with U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham’s office since last year and remains “committed to helping the ICO and all other concerned organizations in their investigations.” Facebook said in a blog post on the issue over the weekend that it was “moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information.” Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg broke his silence on Wednesday as Washington demands answers. In Europe too, he’s been invited to the European and U.K. Parliaments. Speaking from the U.S., Jourova said the allegations could change how the nation approaches privacy matters. ""People I think in America should be more attentive about what’s happening to their privacy,” she said. “When you look at the list of things which were monitored in case of every individual, the people are totally naked. It’s amazing.” Jourova said she has worked with Facebook before and has “always had a feeling that they take seriously their social responsibility,” but added that ""now of course they will have to renew my trust.""    ©2018 Bloomberg L.P. BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder  Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Stay Updated With Business News News On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w937]  cambridge analytica: Congress, BJP trade charges over links with disgraced firm Cambridge Analytica "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w938]  Start Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript)  Ads Display Widget Start Ads Display Widget End  air quality index          air-quality   Ads Display Widget Start Ads Display Widget End  Politics Karnataka, Kairana debacles make BJP's mission to penetrate into Telugu states an uphill task Karnataka, Kairana debacles make BJP's mission to penetrate into Telugu states an uphill task BJP MLAs lament Kairana bypoll loss, use poetry to blame ministers in Yogi Adityanath government Sitaram Yechury slams Narendra Modi government's four-year rule, says it is characterised by 'loot and lies' Congress' VM Sudheeran blames factionalism for party's defeat in Kerala bypoll, urges leaders to end rivalry Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy admits defeat ahead of no-confidence vote, arch-rival Pedro Sanchez to take over Yogi Adityanath's leadership under question as BJP continues to be crushed in crucial by elections Sports French Open 2018: Maria Sharapova returns to Court Philippe Chatrier; Rafael Nadal eyes 16th win over Richard Gasquet French Open 2018: Maria Sharapova returns to Court Philippe Chatrier; Rafael Nadal eyes 16th win over Richard Gasquet International friendlies: Ousmane Dembele scores terrific goal as FIFA World Cup 2018 contenders France beat Italy French Open 2018: Alexander Zverev, Novak Djokovic move to fourth round with hard-fought wins; Elina Svitolina bows out French Open 2018: Novak Djokovic applauds Roberto Bautista Agut for playing at Roland Garros despite mother's death FIFA World Cup 2018: Robert Lewandowski says he's ready to 'do the donkey work' to help Poland top their group French Open 2018: I was thinking about lunch and not losing to Damir Dzumhur, says Alexander Zverev after win India Purulia killings: Another BJP worker found hanging in West Bengal; NHRC sends notice to state govt Purulia killings: Another BJP worker found hanging in West Bengal; NHRC sends notice to state govt Day after Scindia House fire, blaze breaks out at leather company office at Mumbai's Barrister Nath Pai Road; one injured Novak Djokovic, Caroline Wozniacki reach last-16 of French Open; Grigor Dimitrov knocked out on Day 6 Thoothukudi violence: Blood on streets but flawed Tamil Nadu govt order won't 'permanently shut' Sterlite plant Soldier killed, officer injured during patrolling along Line of Control in Baramulla Health ministry recommends Hepatitis-B vaccination for workers at increased risk of acquiring infection World Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un summit is on for 12 June in another twist to high stakes US - North Korea diplomatic negotiation Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un summit is on for 12 June in another twist to high stakes US - North Korea diplomatic negotiation New twist to diplomatic dance: Trump says North Korea summit now on U.S. vetoes U.N. resolution denouncing violence against Palestinians U.S. vetoes UN Security Council resolution denouncing violence against Palestinians U.S. vetoes U.N. Security Council resolution denouncing violence against Palestinians ""We found Russian hit-list of 47 people"", Ukraine tells allies Business IT firms will have to re-skill two million employees ahead of a full-blooded digital push; are they prepared? IT firms will have to re-skill two million employees ahead of a full-blooded digital push; are they prepared? INX Media case: CBI summons P Chidambaram; will question him on 6 June in connection with alleged irregularities Whistleblower in ICICI-Videocon case levels new allegations of wrongdoing against Kochhar, sends letter detailing charges to PM, finance minister The Blue Circle discussion: Gurcharan Das on making a life versus making a living; people now seek purpose, creativity in jobs PSBs under RBI scanner for poor financial health submit two-year recovery plan to government ICICI-Videocon loan issue: Bank's Board denies asking CEO Chanda Kochhar to go on leave Entertainment Race 3 song Allah Duhai Hai released: Salman, Jacqueline and entire cast sizzle in revamped version of franchise staple Race 3 song Allah Duhai Hai released: Salman, Jacqueline and entire cast sizzle in revamped version of franchise staple Veere Di Wedding movie review: Kareena, Sonam, Swara, Shikha play relatable non-conformists in a fun buddy flick Black Panther claims top honour at Golden Trailer Awards; Stranger Things, Westworld bag three each IIFA Awards 2018: Jagga Jasoos tops winners' list in technical categories; Tumhari Sulu leads nominations Officer star Nagarjuna believes his father Akkineni Nageswara Rao's story will work better as a book than biopic Game of Thrones star Natalie Dormer says she knows how the show ends: 'It's a fight to the finish' F.Cricket England vs Pakistan: Hosts show they remember how to play Test cricket at its best after months of humiliation England vs Pakistan: Hosts show they remember how to play Test cricket at its best after months of humiliation England vs Pakistan: Joe Root and Co end Day 1 at Headingley on solid note after bowling visitors out for 174 Highlights, England vs Pakistan, 2nd Test, Day 1 at Headingley, Full Cricket Score: Hosts trail by 68 runs at stumps India vs Afghanistan: Dinesh Karthik likely to replace Wriddhiman Saha in one-off Test in Bengaluru Former India cricketer Madan Lal, BCCI chief CK Khanna's wife among those cleared to contest DDCA elections India vs Afghanistan: Rashid Khan is a '30-year-old mind in a 19-year-old body' says coach Phil Simmons TECH Merger of neutron star may have led to birth of the lowest mass black hole ever found reveal NASA scientists Merger of neutron star may have led to birth of the lowest mass black hole ever found reveal NASA scientists ARM announces Cortex-A76 CPU, Mali-G76 GPU and Mali-V76 video processor for next generation of smartphones New renders of Lenovo Z5 show a selfie camera placed in the centre in the bottom chin: Report SoftBank joins General Motors, will invest $2.25 billion in their autonomous vehicle unit Cruise Scientist have found the fossil of 240 million year old lizard which roamed the earth when dinosaurs were still new Vivo NEX name confirmed in a new poster released on Weibo and the device launches on 12 June Photos Videos Shows  IPL 2018      container header-bottom Ads Display Widget End   It's A Wrap — Parmanu: The Story of Pokhran stars John Abraham, Diana Penty in conversation with Parul Sharma       First Watch Widget End Also Watch       Also See Cambridge Analytica files for bankruptcy in US after it failed to recover from Facebook data scandal Narendra Modi takes up #Fitness challenge: Congress hits back with #DegreeFitHaiChallenge, urges PM to focus on economy NDA will win all 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar during 2019 polls under leadership of Narendra Modi, says BJP  FB Comments FB Comments Tead Ad Script Starts ad spruce ad spruce ends Main RHS Sidebar    Video Widget Start It's A Wrap — Parmanu: The Story of Pokhran stars John Abraham, Diana Penty in conversation with Parul Sharma   Top Stories English Hindi  Whistleblower in ICICI-Videocon case levels new allegations of wrongdoing against Kochhar, sends letter detailing charges to PM, finance minister French Open 2018: Alexander Zverev, Novak Djokovic move to fourth round with hard-fought wins; Elina Svitolina bows out In Kairana, a stronger opposition and a verdict for change: Tabassum Hasan emerges as face of united Opposition Narendra Modi in Singapore: PM calls China 'pivotal partner' in trade, says differences must not become disputes Veere Di Wedding movie review: Kareena, Sonam, Swara, Shikha play relatable non-conformists in a fun buddy flick Pakistan's move to 'merge' FATA with rest of country may be smokescreen to hide attempt to quell Pashtun protests  पश्चिम बंगाल में विपक्ष का हाल: सत्ता का रंग आज भी लाल है, बस चेहरा बदला है पश्चिम बंगाल: सत्ताधारी पार्टी निरंकुश बन सकती है क्योंकि स्थानीय मीडिया दब्बू है और विपक्ष सहमा है कैराना उपचुनाव: बदलाव चाहती है जनता, मजबूत विपक्ष से होगा मुमकिन कैराना: जाट-मुस्लिम का साथ संदेश है कि सांप्रदायिकता बहुत वक्त तक वोटबैंक नहीं रह सकती यूपी उपचुनाव के नतीजे: विपक्ष एकजुट हो, तो बीजेपी का किला बहुत कमजोर साबित होगा   Cricket Scores Current & Recent Upcoming  Pakistan in England, 2 Test Series, 2018 ENG Vs PAK Live Now West Indies and ICC World XI in England, 2018 WI Vs WRL West Indies beat ICC World XI by 72 runs Indian Premier League, 2018 CHE Vs HYD Chennai Super Kings beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 8 wickets Indian Premier League, 2018 HYD Vs KOL Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 14 runs Pakistan in England, 2 Test Series, 2018 ENG Vs PAK Pakistan beat England by 9 wickets  Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 MALW vs INDW - Jun 3rd, 2018, 07:00 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 BANW vs SLW - Jun 3rd, 2018, 07:00 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 PAKW vs THAW - Jun 3rd, 2018, 11:30 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 BANW vs PAKW - Jun 4th, 2018, 07:00 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 INDW vs THAW - Jun 4th, 2018, 07:00 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 MALW vs SLW - Jun 4th, 2018, 11:30 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 PAKW vs SLW - Jun 6th, 2018, 07:00 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 MALW vs THAW - Jun 6th, 2018, 07:00 AM IST New Zealand Women in Ireland, Only T20I, 2018 IREW vs NZW - Jun 6th, 2018, 08:30 AM IST Women's Asia Cup T20, 2018 INDW vs BANW - Jun 6th, 2018, 11:30 AM IST  Ads Display Widget Start Ads Display Widget End side-content Ads Display Widget End RHS Sidebar .container .contentMain .content  Start: Addng Ads Footer   Site Index  हिंदी फर्स्टपोस्ट About Firstpost RSS Twitter Facebook Sections Front Page Politics Sports India World Business Life Entertainment News F.Cricket Tech Photos Videos Plus First Cricket Cricket Live Score Commonwealth Games 2018 IPL 2018 Karnataka Assembly Election 2018 Budget 2018 Tax Calculator Budget 2018 Live TV Laureus World Sports Awards 2017 New Delhi Mumbai Photos F. Pedia Videos FP Exclusives Video Room Weather Network 18 sites In.com Moneycontrol Burrp Topper Learning Overdrive IBN Live News18 Sample Papers Online Business Technology News MTV India Online Shopping in India CAprep18 F. Shows E-Learning Franchise Opportunity  Tools RSS Feeds Apps iOS Android   Copyright © 2018. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved. Terms of use Privacy wrapper jQuery     BetterCampaign Goal Tracker BetterCampaign Goal Tracker MENU TOGGLE SCRIPT FH Analytics End FH Analytics Code "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w939]   Live TV Sports IPL 2018 CWG-2018 Photos National Regional Entertainment World Business Science & Technology Auto Lifestyle & Fashion Opinion Education & Jobs Travel & Food Health & Environment video gallery Offbeat Hindi News menu for top menu for top-  Paresh Rawal deletes ‘our Chai-Wala is any day better …’ tweet after Yuva Desh ‘memes’ row Youth Congress chief apologises after PM Modi’s ‘chaiwala’ meme gets BJP worked up Uttar Pradesh civic body elections: Voters in Meerut claim tampering in EVMs by BJP, create ruckus US President Donald Trump doesn’t rule out backing Republican Roy Moore US regulator to vote to rollback Obama’s net neutrality rules Not looking for huge funds in next Budget: Railways Minister Piyush Goyal  Don’t judge film without seeing it: Subhash Ghai on Padmavati row ‘Flowing’ water on Mars may be sand and dust; says study Bigg Boss 11 November 21 preview: Priyank Sharma and Hina Khan slut-shame Arshi Khan Shiv Sena taunts BJP over Manushi Chhillar’s Miss World win  Header Ad for Desktop Header Ad for Desktop   Congress accuses BJP of dishing out lies; says party has never used Cambridge Analytica’s services  Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala has come out and clarified that the party or Rahul Gandhi have never used the services of Cambridge Analytica. Lashing out at the BJP, he said that the party factory of fake news has produced one more fake news today. Earlier, Union Law Minister had accused the grand old party of roping in the services of Cambridge Analytica for running its election campaign for 2019 general election By   NewsX Bureau   | Updated : 21 March 2018, 4:56 PM     Following allegations of links with disgraced firm Cambridge Analytica, Congress has come out and issued a clarification that it has never taken services of the company Following allegations of links with disgraced firm Cambridge Analytica, Congress has come out and issued a clarification that it has never taken services of the company. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala added that it was fake agenda and lie being dished out by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “BJP’s factory of fake news has produced one more fake product today. It appears fake statements, fake press conferences & fake agendas have become an everyday character of BJP and its ‘Lawless’ Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad,” Mr Surjewala said. Earlier in the day. BJP had alleged that the Congress party had an association with London-based Cambridge Analytica, which is infamous for allegedly helping US President Donald Trump back in the year 2016 by harvesting personal data on Facebook users. He questioned the grand old party and said if the party will rely upon data manipulation to win the elections. “What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in social media profile of Rahul Gandhi?” he questioned. ALSO READ: Another jolt to BJP from south as TN CM Palaniswami hints at no alliance or support to party Mr Prasad accused the Congress party of roping in the services of Cambridge Analytica for running its election campaign for 2019 general elections while quoting a report from Economic Times. “According to media reports, Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix has met several opposition leaders to design electoral strategy for the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) in the next Lok Sabha elections. The company has made a presentation to the Congress in which it detailed the strategy to target voters online,” the report had pointed out. Cambridge Analytica is currently at the centre of a fresh storm as reports have shown that the company has access to personal data of Facebook users. ALSO READ:  Chhattisgarh police rescue 2 minors who were raped for 15 days; 7 arrested, 2 absconding   "				 			" Outbrain Outbrain  Next More from NewsX  RSS-Pranab Mukherjee row: Even Mahatma Gandhi acknowledged RSS’ positive values, says Venkaiah Naidu   Get rewards up to Rs 5 crore by giving information on tax evasion   NPA files on NewsX: Linkson Coal and Minerals pvt ltd owes State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur Rs 56 crore   PM Modi in Singapore says India stands for a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific region   Two UP BJP MLAs attribute Kairana loss due to state government corruption   PM Modi in Singapore says 21st century belongs to Asia   Farmer Protest: Milk, vegetables dumped on roads in UP, MP, Punjab, Haryana   Bodh Gaya bomb blasts 2013: All 5 accused sentenced to life in prison   Ravi Shankar Prasad says triple talaq not a religious issue  Popular on NewsX  PM Modi in Singapore says India stands for a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific region   Two UP BJP MLAs attribute Kairana loss due to state government corruption   PM Modi in Singapore says 21st century belongs to Asia   Farmer Protest: Milk, vegetables dumped on roads in UP, MP, Punjab, Haryana   Bodh Gaya bomb blasts 2013: All 5 accused sentenced to life in prison   Ravi Shankar Prasad says triple talaq not a religious issue   Gujarat ATS nabs 1993 Mumbai serial blasts accused Ahmed Mohammed Lambu   NPA files on NewsX: Vishwa Rupa Steel pvt ltd owes State Bank of India Rs 67 crore  Custom Req More News RSS-Pranab Mukherjee row: Even Mahatma Gandhi acknowledged RSS' positive values, says Venkaiah Naidu WBCHSE to declare West Bengal HS results 2018 on this date, check details here Get rewards up to Rs 5 crore by giving information on tax evasion Kannur University B.Sc, B.C.A, F.A.D.T first semester results declared @ Kannuruniversity.ac.in, check how to download NPA files on NewsX: Linkson Coal and Minerals pvt ltd owes State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur Rs 56 crore Kundali Bhagya 1 June 2018 Full Episode Written Updates: Karan plans a way to return the necklace Kumkum Bhagya 1 June 2018 Full Episode Written Updates: Abhi goes to King's party PM Modi in Singapore says India stands for a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific region Two UP BJP MLAs attribute Kairana loss due to state government corruption RBSE Class 12 Arts results 2018 declared @ rajresults.nic.in, check how to download Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy ousted after failing confidence motion PM Modi in Singapore says 21st century belongs to Asia Veere Di Wedding review: The four leading ladies share great on-screen chemistry Farmer Protest: Milk, vegetables dumped on roads in UP, MP, Punjab, Haryana Ravi Shankar Prasad says triple talaq not a religious issue KCET Results 2018: Karnataka CET result likely to declare today @ karresults.nic.in Gujarat ATS nabs 1993 Mumbai serial blasts accused Ahmed Mohammed Lambu CBSE CTET 2018 registration process to start on June 22 @ ctet.nic.in, check eligibility, exam date Bodh Gaya bomb blasts 2013: All 5 accused sentenced to life in prison West Bengal VOCLET Exam Results 2018 Check @ webscte.co.in Custom Req  NEWSX "				 About us Opinion Contact Us CATEGORIES 				 National News Regional News World News Sports News Lifestyle & Fashion News Business News Entertainment News Science & Technology News Auto News Travel & Food News Education & Jobs News Health & Environment News Offbeat News Indian Premier League – IPL 2018 STAY CONNECTED 				 Mobile Apps Facebook Twitter Google + Instagram Youtube OTHER SERVICES 				 Photos videos Programmes NewsX Tech Channel NewsX Select Channel OUR CHANNELS 				 NEWSX LIVE TV INDIA NEWS LIVE TV INDIA NEWS HARYANA LIVE TV INDIA NEWS MADHYA PRADESH LIVE TV INDIA NEWS RAJASTHAN LIVE TV INDIA NEWS UTTAR PRADESH LIVE TV INDIA NEWS PUNJAB LIVE TV -mobile menu Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookies Notice Site Map Accessibility Information Complaint Form © COPYRIGHT NEWSX 2018. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.   Push notification Push notification Daily motion Daily motion Performance optimized by W3 Total Cache. Learn more: https://www.w3-edge.com/products/ Object Caching 4161/4242 objects using disk Content Delivery Network via Amazon Web Services: CloudFront: static.newsx.com Database Caching 8/30 queries in 0.167 seconds using memcached Served from: www.newsx.com @ 2018-06-02 08:35:48 by W3 Total Cache 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w940]   Facebook-Cambridge Analytica: Ravi Shankar Prasad Warns Facebook Of Strong Action If It Sways Electoral Process - Bloomberg Quint     top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings     Article details  PTI   @PTI_News   March 21 2018, 1:22PM  March 21 2018, 11:24AM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line India today warned social media platforms like Facebook of “strong action” if any attempt was made by them to influence the country’s electoral process through undesirable means. Amid a probe by the U.S. privacy watchdog over a potential breach of user confidentiality by Facebook, Information Technology and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the government fully supports freedom of press, speech and expression and is for exchange of ideas on social media. But any attempt by social media sites, including Facebook, to influence India’s electoral process through undesirable means will not be tolerated, he told reporters in Parliament House complex. “If need be, strong action will be taken.” The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, an independent government body charged with ensuring that companies abide by their own privacy policies, is looking at whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree after media reports alleged that it had handed the data of millions of users to a political consultancy. Reports had alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data mined from Facebook in the voter research it conducted for President Donald Trump during the 2016 elections campaign. Also Read: Understanding the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica Story: QuickTake Prasad alleged that Congress party had links with Cambridge Analytica. “My question to the Congress party is whether to win elections, Congress will depend on data manipulation and theft of data,” he said. “What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in the social media profile of Rahul Gandhi,” he asked. He alleged that Cambridge Analytica, the agency roped in by Congress to run their 2019 campaign and termed as their ‘Brahmastra’ in certain section of media, is accused of using bribes, sex workers to entrap politicians and stealing data from Facebook. Watch this interview with Congress’ analytics head, Praveen Chakraborty on Ravi Shankar Prasad’s allegations.  Also Read: Cambridge Analytica's History of Dubious Election Tricks BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Follow All The Political News In India On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w941] Facebook: India warns against social media data misuse ahead of elections, Technology News, ETtech      Javascript Variables required for the project in any section Javascript file Includes section (Only Important Ones go here.. )  Top Band  NEWS SITES "	" Retail News Auto News Health News Telecom News Energy News IT News Real Estate News Brand Equity CFO News IT Security News  Top Band ETtech News Startups Funding Technology Digital Payments Corporate Govt Policy Mobile Apps Smartphones Internet Social Media E-commerce People Brand Solutions Tata Communications Vodafone Business Services   E-commerce Digital Payments Interviews Funding Smartphones Govt policy Long Reads Social Media Apps More Technology News Latest Technology News Internet Internet » Facebook Ravi Shankar Prasad Social media Indian Govt Government India warns against social media data misuse ahead of elections  India's Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday warned against any abuse of social media in elections, following reports that a British consultancy improperly accessed information on millions of Facebook users to target U.S. voters. India is due to hold a national election in 2019 and there are several states electing new assemblies this year and the next ""Abuse of social media including Facebook cannot be allowed to impact the fairness of elections,"" Prasad told reporters. ""In the wake of recent data theft from Facebook, let my stern warning be heard across the Atlantic, far away in California. Any covert or overt attempt to misuse social media including Facebook to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be tolerated, nor be permitted."" A Facebook spokesperson did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. Cambridge Analytica has denied media accusations and said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. Facebook has said it has tightened its controls on such practices since it discovered the alleged abuses by Cambridge Analytica in 2015, but the issue has continued to rock the companies involved as well as some political parties across the world. RELATED Tags : Internet , Facebook , Ravi Shankar Prasad , Social media , Indian Govt , Government ................ Set request data...................   Recommended by Colombia /7176/ETTech/ETTech_AS/ETTech_AS_ATF_300x250 /7176/ETTech/ETtech_ROS/ETTech_ROS_ATF_300x250 Subscribe Subscribe ETtech Newsletter 100000+ Industry Leaders already read it everyday    /Subscribe /7176/ETTech/ETTech_AS/ETTech_AS_ATF_300x250 /7176/ETTech/ETtech_ROS/ETTech_ROS_ATF_300x250 /7176/ETTech/ETTech_AS/ETTech_AS_BTF_300x250 What led to Sachin Bansal's exit from Flipkart Indian Railways will now tell you if your ticket stands a chance of being confirmed Amazon India brings 2 hr deliveries to Prime members with rebranded Prime Now Hotstar sets new streaming record with over 10 million concurrent viewers Flipkart plans an aggressive grocery foray /7176/ETTech/ETTech_AS/ETTech_AS_BTF_300x250 We have updated our terms and conditions and privacy policy Click ""Continue"" to accept and continue with ETtech Accept the updated privacy & cookie policy Dear user, The EconomicTimes.com privacy and cookie policy has been updated to align with the new data regulations in European Union. Please review and accept these changes below to continue using the website. You can see our privacy policy & our cookie list below. We use cookies to ensure the best experience for you on our website. If you choose to ignore this message, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on ETtech. Analytics Necessary Newsletter Name Provider Expiry Type Purpose Google Analytics Google 1 Year HTTPS To track visitors to the site, their origin & behaviour.  Name Provider Expiry Type Purpose optout Times Internet 1 day HTTPS Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain PHPSESSID Times Internet 1 day HTTPS Stores user's preferences accessCode Times Internet 2.5 Hours HTTPS To serve content relevant to a region peuuid Times Internet 7 days HTTPS Uniquely identify each user peuuid Times Internet 1 Year Browser Fingerprinting to uniquely identify client browsers  Name Purpose Daily Newsletter Receive daily list of important news Promo Mailers Receive information about events, industry, etc. I've read & accepted the terms and conditions  spnsr END NEWS Technology Startups Corporate Mobile Internet People RSS Top Stories Recent Stories Technology Startups Corporate Mobile Internet People WIDGETS Top Stories Recent Stories Technology Startups Corporate Mobile Internet People About tech A destination for all things startup & technology in India. Trends › Flipkart Walmart Deal | Grofers | Infosys | IoT | Swiggy | Amazon Prime Videos | UberEATS | Zomato | Uber | Digital Payments Editor's Picks › HCL Technologies signs a collaboration agreement with JDA Software | The Possibilities of Blockchain: Use Cases for B2B, B2C and Government Services | CoinTribe gets $10M in series B funding | ETtech Morning Briefing: India seeks WhatsApp Pay info, Flipkart and Amazon India losses & more | Google debuts a neighbourhood Q&A; app Neighbourly | Pine Labs raises $125M from Temasek and PayPal | Wipro Infrastructure sets up industrial automation unit in India | Mobikwik bets on UPI for expansion, gets 5M UPI signups | Mid-tier IT firms look to hire 500-1000 freshers in recruitment drive | You will soon be able to buy BMTC passes online Other B2B News Sites › Retail News | Auto News | Health News | Telecom News | Energy News | IT News | Real Estate News | Marketing & Advertising News | CFO News | IT Security News Footer About Us | Contact Us | Advertise with us | Newsletter | Submit a startup | RSS Feeds | Invite Friends | Enroll Company Employees | Embed ETtech.com Widgets on your Website Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Guest-Post Guidelines | Sitemap | Copyright © 2018 ETtech.com . All Rights Reserved. /Footer share scripts *************************************************** ###### Added By Ajit Rajput############ for mobile nav /7176/ETTech/ETTech_AS/ETTech_AS_Innov1 GadCode  ****** ETB2B platform specific script ******  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w942]  Start GDPR cookies policy  	 By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our 	 Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. 	  End GDPR cookies policy MAIN WARP INNER HEADER HEADER TOP PANEL TOP MENU Home Markets Companies Opinion Specials PF Portfolio My Page Multimedia IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Photo Gallery Video Gallery Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls TOP MENU END BS APPS  iPad iPhone Android Wap BS PRODUCTS  Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books Today's Paper  BS E-Paper Bs Learning 			 	"  , Change Password Subscribe Sign out Change Password Manage My Account Sign out SIGN IN Subscribe                TOP PANEL END LOGO BS LOGO BS LOGO END LOGO END SECOND MENU SECOND MENU END Latest News Ticker Start JUST IN   "														Singapore summit with Kim on June 12 will happen: Trump													 														"Centre making efforts to takle increase in petrol, diesel prices: Gadkari"													 														BJP slams Congress over Kamal Nath's letter to Rahul													 														Terrorism in Valley in last stage: Jitendra Singh													 														Man stabbed to death in outer Delhi													 														Govt forms executive committee for Gandhi's 150th birth anniversary celebrations													 														Six Naxals arrested in Chhattisgarh													 														'Karsevaks demolished structure where Hindus offered prayers'													 														"India, China aviation officials discuss increasing air connectivity"													 														Over 600 agitating nurses jailed in Raipur													   News Stock Quote Authors 					 Topic Video     						   						 						   						   						"   Latest News Ticker end Latest News Ticker Start Latest News Ticker end HEADER END You are here: Home » PTI Stories » National » News HEADER END Change for Market Tags START Change for Market Tags END Country Code=US HEADER END MAIN CONTENT AREA /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 Move Video Embed code Top if Exist Start Move Video Embed code Top if Exist End MAIN CONTENT AREA END FOOTER MORE ON MARKETS: LEFT CONTENT Quick Links Stock Market Live Portfolio Commodity Market Upcoming IPO Personal Finance Stock Market News Derivatives Mutual Funds Gold Price Sensex RIGHT CONTENT Browse STOCK Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z RIGHT CONTENT END Index Stocks Adani Ports Asian Paints Axis Bank B P C L Bajaj Auto Bajaj Finance Ltd Bajaj Finserv Bharti Airtel Bharti Infra. Cipla Coal India Dr Reddy's Labs Eicher Motors GAIL (India) Grasim Inds H D F C HCL Technologies HDFC Bank Hero Motocorp Hind. Unilever Hindalco Inds. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd ICICI Bank Indiabulls Housing Finance Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. IndusInd Bank Infosys ITC Kotak Mah. Bank Larsen & Toubro Lupin M & M Maruri Suzuki NTPC O N G C Power Grid Corpn Reliance Inds. St Bk of India Sun Pharma. Inds. Tata Motors Tata Motors-DVR Tata Steel TCS Tech Mahindra Titan Company UltraTech Cement Ltd UPL Ltd Wipro Yes Bank Zee Entertainment RIGHT CONTENT END TRENDING ON BS #Markets #BSWeekend #BSTech #GST #BSSpecial  Copyrights © 2018 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.  From BS Website Home Companies Markets Opinion Politics Technology Specials Personal Finance Latest News Today's Paper RBI Policy General News General Videos General Photo Gallery Events Authors Education About us About Us Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy Disclaimer Investor Communication List of our GST registration number Support & Contact Partner with Us Careers Advertise with Us Contact Us Feedback Browser Support Sitemap Subscribe E-Paper BS Magazines Portfolio Tracker BS Products Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books B2B Connect iPhone iPad android wap BS Banking Round Table 2017 BS Fund Cafe 2017 Budget Insight Out  Election Karnataka Election 2018 IPL ipl 2018 Connect with BS Facebook Google+ Linkedin Twitter Youtube RSS  google_left_120x600 google_right_120x600    Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of ""Business Standard Premium Services"" As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include: Access Exclusive content - articles, features & opinion pieces Weekly Industry/Genre specific newsletters - Choose multiple industries/genres Access to 17 plus years of content archives Set Stock price alerts for your portfolio and watch list and get them delivered to your e-mail box End of day news alerts on 5 companies (via email) NEW : Get seamless access to WSJ.com at a great price. No additional sign-up required.           Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS.  Kindly visit the to discover the benefits of this programme.  Enjoy Reading!  Team Business Standard     Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 Notifications For Free Users FOOTER END Google Analytics Start Google Analytics End Comscore start Comscore End RUM Wrapper from Akamai's start RUM Wrapper from Akamai's End Facebook Pixel Code  End Facebook Pixel Code Subscription band - Start Subscription band - Start "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w943]  Start GDPR cookies policy  	 By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our 	 Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. 	  End GDPR cookies policy MAIN WARP INNER HEADER HEADER TOP PANEL TOP MENU Home Markets Companies Opinion Specials PF Portfolio My Page Multimedia IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Photo Gallery Video Gallery Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls Home Today's Paper Latest News Economy Finance Current Affairs International Management The Strategist Weekend Data Stories GST Markets News Stocks Commodities IPOs Mutual Funds Mutual Fund Tools Derivatives BS Fund Manager Companies News Results Financial X-Ray Auto Engineering Financials Infra IT Oil & Gas Telecom Services All Sectors Opinion Editorial Comment Columnists BS Special Business Law & Tax Lunch Poll Specials Weekend Digital Consumer PE/VC Brand World SME Start-ups B2B Connect Sponsored Content BS Special PF News Features Investments Loans & Credit Cards Tax Insurance Financial Tools Portfolio My Page Multimedia Photo Gallery Video Gallery IPL 2018 Karnataka Polls TOP MENU END BS APPS  iPad iPhone Android Wap BS PRODUCTS  Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books Today's Paper  BS E-Paper Bs Learning 			 	"  , Change Password Subscribe Sign out Change Password Manage My Account Sign out SIGN IN Subscribe                TOP PANEL END LOGO BS LOGO BS LOGO END LOGO END SECOND MENU SECOND MENU END Latest News Ticker Start JUST IN   "														CBI summons AirAsia CEO Tony Fernandes in licence grant matter													 														Engineers using robots to dismantle practice of manual scavenging in India													 														Christian Dior settles plagiarism dispute with People Tree's Orijit Sen													 														"Farmers dump milk, vegetables and fruits on the roads in mass protest"													 														"Delhi, J&K; on high alert over possible Fidayeen attack on security forces"													 														"Uttarakhand cloudburst: Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Pauri, Tehri; updates"													 														Fire breaks out in Mumbai Income Tax office; no casualties reported													 														"UP Dy CM kicks up 'Ramayana' storm, claims Sita was a 'test-tube baby'"													 														"Govt takes note of home buyers, builders problem; sets up advisory panels"													 														INX media case: CBI asks Chidambaram to appear for questioning on June 6													   News Stock Quote Authors 					 Topic Video     						   						 						   						   						"   Latest News Ticker end Latest News Ticker Start Latest News Ticker end HEADER END You are here: Home » Current Affairs » News » National HEADER END Change for Market Tags START Change for Market Tags END Country Code=US HEADER END MAIN CONTENT AREA /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 /Dynamic Banner 1 mytest_728x90 Move Video Embed code Top if Exist Start Move Video Embed code Top if Exist End MAIN CONTENT AREA END FOOTER MORE ON MARKETS: LEFT CONTENT Quick Links Stock Market Live Portfolio Commodity Market Upcoming IPO Personal Finance Stock Market News Derivatives Mutual Funds Gold Price Sensex RIGHT CONTENT Browse STOCK Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z RIGHT CONTENT END Index Stocks Adani Ports Asian Paints Axis Bank B P C L Bajaj Auto Bajaj Finance Ltd Bajaj Finserv Bharti Airtel Bharti Infra. Cipla Coal India Dr Reddy's Labs Eicher Motors GAIL (India) Grasim Inds H D F C HCL Technologies HDFC Bank Hero Motocorp Hind. Unilever Hindalco Inds. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd ICICI Bank Indiabulls Housing Finance Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. IndusInd Bank Infosys ITC Kotak Mah. Bank Larsen & Toubro Lupin M & M Maruri Suzuki NTPC O N G C Power Grid Corpn Reliance Inds. St Bk of India Sun Pharma. Inds. Tata Motors Tata Motors-DVR Tata Steel TCS Tech Mahindra Titan Company UltraTech Cement Ltd UPL Ltd Wipro Yes Bank Zee Entertainment RIGHT CONTENT END TRENDING ON BS #Markets #BSWeekend #BSTech #GST #BSSpecial  Copyrights © 2018 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.  From BS Website Home Companies Markets Opinion Politics Technology Specials Personal Finance Latest News Today's Paper RBI Policy General News General Videos General Photo Gallery Events Authors Education About us About Us Code of Conduct Terms & Conditions Cookie Policy Disclaimer Investor Communication List of our GST registration number Support & Contact Partner with Us Careers Advertise with Us Contact Us Feedback Browser Support Sitemap Subscribe E-Paper BS Magazines Portfolio Tracker BS Products Smart Investor BS Hindi BS Motoring BS Books B2B Connect iPhone iPad android wap BS Banking Round Table 2017 BS Fund Cafe 2017 Budget Insight Out  Election Karnataka Election 2018 IPL ipl 2018 Connect with BS Facebook Google+ Linkedin Twitter Youtube RSS  google_left_120x600    Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of ""Business Standard Premium Services"" As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include: Access Exclusive content - articles, features & opinion pieces Weekly Industry/Genre specific newsletters - Choose multiple industries/genres Access to 17 plus years of content archives Set Stock price alerts for your portfolio and watch list and get them delivered to your e-mail box End of day news alerts on 5 companies (via email) NEW : Get seamless access to WSJ.com at a great price. No additional sign-up required.           Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS.  Kindly visit the to discover the benefits of this programme.  Enjoy Reading!  Team Business Standard     Javascript tag begin ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 end ZEDO for channel: Home Page , publisher: default , Ad Dimension: Skinning 1x1 - 1 x 1 Notifications For Free Users FOOTER END Google Analytics Start Google Analytics End Comscore start Comscore End RUM Wrapper from Akamai's start RUM Wrapper from Akamai's End Facebook Pixel Code  End Facebook Pixel Code Subscription band - Start Subscription band - Start "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w944]   News LIVE: Congress, BJP Level Charges at Each Other Over Cambridge Analytica Links - News18 Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) GET Stock English हिन्दी বাংলা मराठी ગુજરાતી தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football Food Photos World Lifestyle TV Shows TV Videos Travel Business Health and Fitness Blogs Podcast Immersives IPL Karnataka Elections Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan English English हिन्दी Hindi বাংলা Bengali मराठी Marathi ગુજરાતી Gujarati தமிழ் Tamil ಕನ್ನಡ Kannada ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Punjabi اردو Urdu മലയാളം Malayalam  Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football All Sections LIVE TV Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football Food Photos World Lifestyle TV Shows TV Videos Travel Business Health and Fitness Blogs Podcast Immersives IPL Karnataka Elections Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan      Home Photos Politics Opinion Cricket Movies India Mobile ad top banner  live blog LIVE NOW"				 		" auto-refresh News LIVE: Congress, BJP Level Charges at Each Other Over Cambridge Analytica Links News18.com | March 21, 2018, 4:17 PM IST  Event Highlights Will Not Allow Social Media Misuse to Influence Elections: Ravi Shankar Prasad Congress Questions SC Decision on SC/ST Centre Seeks Supreme Court Nod for PowerPoint Presentation on Aadhaar World Glacier Melting Passes Point of No Return Petrol Bomb Hurled at BJP Leader's House in TN Sensex, Nifty Still in Green Mid-day Rajya Sabha Adjourned For The Day Gen VK Singh to go to Mosul Next Week  "	 			"We will keep track of major news events across the world through this live blog. The big news at the moment: Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has alleged that the Congress party had links with Cambridge Analytica, which has come under the cloud for 'influencing elections' using data mined from Facebook illegally. ""My question to Congress party is whether to win elections, Congress will depend on data manipulation and theft of data,"" he said. ""What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in social media profile of Rahul Gandhi?"" he asked. Congress IT cell head Divya Spandana a.k.a Ramya denied the allegations by the Law Minister and said, ""Congress has never and is not employing Cambridge Analytica. The company only works with right-wing parties, not liberals. Their website itself says they work with BJP."" Read More  Mar 21, 2018 4:17 pm (IST) Cambridge Analytica's linked website shows that in 2010 its services were used by BJP-JD(U). Firm's Indian partner Ovlene Business Intelligence (OBI) is being run by BJP ally's MP's son. OBI company's services were used by Rajnath Singh in 2009:  Randeep Surjewala, Congress   Mar 21, 2018 4:02 pm (IST)  Randeep Surjewala: Indian National Congress or the Congress President has never used or never hired the services of a company called Cambridge Analytica. It is a fake agenda and white lie being dished out by Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.   Mar 21, 2018 4:00 pm (IST) BJP's factory of fake news has produced one more fake product today. It appears fake statements, fake press conferences and fake agendas have become an everyday character of BJP and its 'lawless' Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.   Mar 21, 2018 3:55 pm (IST) had said earlier in the day, ""We ask Congress that how much data of Indians was shared with Cambridge Analytica's CEO. As there are serious allegations of data theft against this company in USA, England. The company boasts of having influenced elections in Nigeria, Kenya, Brazil, also in India.""   Mar 21, 2018 3:29 pm (IST) Congress IT cell head Divya Spandana a.k.a Ramya denied the allegations by the Law Minister and said, ""Congress has never and is not employing Cambridge Analytica. The company only works with right-wing parties, not liberals. Their website itself says they work with BJP."" When News18 checked, the website of the company claimed to have worked in India during the 2010 Bihar Assembly Elections. ""Our client achieved a landslide victory, with over 90% of total seats targeted by CA being won,"" the website says. The elections were won by the JD(U), which was in alliance with the BJP — the second largest party in the state.   Mar 21, 2018 3:11 pm (IST) Nix describes questionable practices used to influence foreign elections and said his firm did all the research, analytics and targeting of voters for Trump's digital and TV campaigns. He also boasts he met Trump when he was the Republican presidential candidate ""many times"". Nix’s comments ""do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,"" Cambridge Analytica said in a statement.   Mar 21, 2018 3:10 pm (IST) On Tuesday, suspended chief executive of Cambridge Analytica said in a secretly recorded video broadcast on Tuesday that his UK-based political consultancy's online campaign played a decisive role in US President Donald Trump's 2016 election victory. CEO Alexander Nix's comments, which could not be verified, are potentially a further problem for Facebook as it faces lawmakers' scrutiny in the United States and Europe over Cambridge Analytica's improper use of 50 million Facebook users' personal data to target voters.   Mar 21, 2018 3:09 pm (IST)  ""Any covert or overt attempt to misuse social media, including Facebook, to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be tolerated nor be permitted,"" says Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. The BJP leader was referring to the alleged links between the Congress Party and Cambridge Analytica, which has come under the cloud for 'influencing elections' using data stolen mined from Facebook. ""Cambridge Analytica, the agency roped in by Congress to run their 2019 campaign and termed as their 'Brahmastra' in certain section of media, is accused of using bribes, sex workers to entrap politicians and stealing data from Facebook,” said Prasad. The union minister further targeted Congress president Rahul Gandhi saying, ""Will Congress party depend upon data manipulation and theft to win votes? Mr Rahul Gandhi should explain the role of Cambridge Analytica in his social media profile.""   Mar 21, 2018 1:59 pm (IST) Responding to the Congress’ charges, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “The Congress is making irresponsible statements. I will examine and respond to the SC judgment. What has the Congress done for Dalits in the 48 years of their rule? They have only used them as a vote bank.”   Mar 21, 2018 1:49 pm (IST) “Were Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prime Minister Narendra Modi sleeping that they were not aware that the Attorney General is not going to court on this case? This reflects the anti-Dalit mind set of the BJP-RSS. There can be misuse but that doesn't mean all cases registered are wrong as per misuse. Does one-odd cases of misuse mean you abolish the law?” questioned Surjewala.   Mar 21, 2018 1:46 pm (IST) “Why is the government silent on this order of the court? Has the government agreed to do away with protection for the SC/ST community? The government must rectify its mistake. There needs to be a review petition in the court,” said Surjewala.   Mar 21, 2018 1:44 pm (IST) ""The Rights of Dalits, SC/ST have been compromised under the present government. The law that was enacted during the Rajiv Gandhi government has been entirely done away way with. The Maharashtra government was part of it (the petition) and they did not take any step to establish a stand on it. The Attorney General, too, did not go to court over it. Through this order it has been made clear that no immediate action will be taken if a Dalit, SC/ST comes to report any grievance,"" said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.   Mar 21, 2018 1:39 pm (IST) ""During the Rajiv Gandhi government, we passed the rule so that those who are from the SC/ST section are given protection. This decision of the court seems to be a part of the RSS-BJP way of thinking to dilute any means of protection against atrocities towards SC/ST community,"" said Haryana Congress leader Selja Kumari.   Mar 21, 2018 1:38 pm (IST) ""There were several decisions that were taken for the empowerment of the SC/ST. We are saddened by the decision that the law now doesn't agree to protect the SC/ST. If this decision if not thought over again, it will lead to further questions. Why is the Government silent on the matter, it seems like they are welcoming the decision,"" said former Union Minister, Congress' Anand Sharma.    Mar 21, 2018 1:37 pm (IST) Law Can't Create Caste Hatred, Must Protect All: SC Rules Out Automatic FIR, Arrest in SC/ST Act A bench of the Supreme Court held there is a need to provide for safeguards against registration of FIRs and arrests under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in view of instances of misuse, as observed in the last three decades, and to protect the liberty of others.   Mar 21, 2018 1:37 pm (IST) On Tuesday, underlining that ""law should not result in caste hatred"", the Supreme Court ruled out automatic registration of FIR and arrest in complaint under SC/ST Act. A bench of Justices Adarsh K Goel and Uday U Lalit held there is a need to provide for safeguards against registration of FIRs and arrests under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in view of instances of misuse, as observed in the last three decades, and to protect the liberty of others. Reacting to the same, Congress Party today said that they were saddened by the decision.   Mar 21, 2018 1:27 pm (IST) The question is which aspect will prevail, Attorney General KK Venugopal said, adding that the fundamental rights like the Right to Life should prevail over Right to Conscience and Privacy. He is continuing with his submission. The Supreme Court yesterday took note of the submission that a person cannot be asked to part with personal information under the Aadhaar scheme on the ground of freedom of right to religion, and asked can a person refuse to follow the law in secular matters such as filing of income-tax returns.   Mar 21, 2018 1:25 pm (IST) The SC bench said there are several technical aspects related to the Aadhaar scheme such as the surveillance, data security and exclusion of certain people from receiving benefits for the want of either authentication or the lack of Aadhaar number. Attorney General KK Venugopal, who argued for the Centre, said the UIDAI chief executive may deal with technical aspects with more clarity. He said the Fundamental Rights enshrined in the Indian Constitution have two aspects. One deals with rights like Right to Food and Right to Education and the other pertains to Freedom of Conscience and Right to Privacy, Venugopal said.   Mar 21, 2018 1:24 pm (IST) The central government today sought the Supreme Court's permission to allow the CEO of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) for a PowerPoint presentation on Aadhaar scheme in the court to allay concerns. Chief Justice Dipak Misra, hearing a number of pleas challenging the constitutional validity of Aadhaar and its enabling Act, said he will fix the time for the presentation after discussing the matter with other judges of the five-judge constitution bench he is heading.   Mar 21, 2018 1:20 pm (IST) One kilogramme of CO2 emitted costs 15 kilogrammes of glacier ice, said researchers. Whether the average temperature rises by 2 or only 1.5 degrees Celsius makes no significant difference for the development of glacier mass loss over the next 100 years, they said. ""Around 36 per cent of the ice still stored in glaciers today would melt even without further emissions of greenhouse gases,"" said Ben Marzeion, also from University of Innsbruck. ""That means more than a third of the glacier ice that still exists today in mountain glaciers can no longer be saved, even with the most ambitious measures,"" said Marzeion. However, looking beyond the current century, it does make a difference whether the 2 or 1.5 degrees Celsius goal is achieved, researchers said.   Mar 21, 2018 1:20 pm (IST) Researchers at The University of Bremen in Germany and the University of Innsbruck in Austria calculated the effects of compliance with these climate goals on the progressive melting of glaciers. ""Melting glaciers have a huge influence on the development of sea level rise,"" said Georg Kaser from the University of Innsbruck. ""In our calculations, we took into account all glaciers worldwide — without the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets and peripheral glaciers — and modeled them in various climate scenarios,"" said Kaser.   Mar 21, 2018 1:18 pm (IST) The further melting of glaciers worldwide cannot be prevented in the current century — even if all the emissions are curtailed, a study has found. However, due to the slow reaction of glaciers to climate change, human activity will have a massive impact beyond the 21st century, according to the study published in the journal Nature Climate Change. In the long run, 500 metres by car with a mid-range vehicle will cost one kilogramme of glacier ice, researchers said. In the Paris Agreement, 195 member states of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change agreed to limit the rise in global average temperature to significantly below two degrees Celsius.   Mar 21, 2018 12:58 pm (IST) Miscreants hurled a petrol bomb at the residence of a BJP functionary in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu early morning today but no one was injured, police said. They said a car parked outside the house of BJP district president CR Nandakumar was damaged in the incident. The bomb was hurled around 3 am when Nandakumar was sleeping in the house, police said. This comes a day after the statue of late Dravidian leader 'Periyar' was found vandalised in Pudukottai district. Police were verifying the CCTV footage obtained from the cameras installed in the area to identify the miscreants. Police suspect that the attack on the house could be a retaliatory action to the vandalism of statues of leaders, including Periyar or against the VHP's Rath Yatra in the state   Mar 21, 2018 12:46 pm (IST) Kashmir's 'Hotel California': Where Guns, Pens and Ideas Have Thrived for the Last 100 Years When militancy broke out in Jammu and Kashmir, many hoteliers ended up winding their business and vacating the buildings. The only one remaining was Ahdoos, located at Residency Road in Srinagar and famous for its scrumptious Kebabs.   Mar 21, 2018 12:46 pm (IST) Policeman Injured in Fresh Firing Between Forces, Militants in J&K; | A policeman was injured in a fresh exchange of fire between militants and security forces in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir today, an official said. ""In the fresh exchange of fire, one policeman has been injured. He is stated to be stable and being treated at a hospital,"" the police spokesman said. He said the overnight operation was underway when the last reports came in. The encounter broke out in Arampora area of the district yesterday after security forces launched an operation in the wake of militants opening firing on an Army patrol party.   Mar 21, 2018 12:31 pm (IST) Adivasistan: A Separate 'Independent' Area Sans Indian Constitution, Laws Pathhargarhi takes its inspiration from an outlandish conspiracy theory, based on some forged documents, and supported by a misinformed reading of the Constitution, according to which, adivasis have constitutional authority to declare self-rule in areas they dominate and are the actual owners of India.   Mar 21, 2018 12:27 pm (IST) The BSE Sensex rallied over 300 points on sustained buying in realty, telecom, banking, energy and consumer durables counters, ahead of US Federal Reserve's key policy outcome scheduled later in the day. Bouts of short-covering and firm cues from Asian markets boosted investor sentiment. The 30-share index was trading at 33,339.93 at 1100hrs, up 343.17 points, or 1.04 percent. The broader Nifty index was trading above the key 10,200 level at 10,222.40, up 98.05 points, or 0.97 percent. Major gainers were Bharti Airtel, NTPC, Axis Bank, HDFC and SBI.   Mar 21, 2018 11:55 am (IST) No Specific Plans For Trump-Putin Meet | The White House has said that there were no specific plans right away for a meeting between US President Donald Trump and his newly re-elected Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. The remarks came on Tuesday hours after Trump claimed that he will probably meet Putin ""in the not too distant future"", Xinhua news agency reported. ""There are no specific plans made at this time,"" said the White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders at a daily briefing. ""But we want to continue to have a dialogue with Russia, and continue to talk about some of the shared interests we have,"" Sanders added.   Mar 21, 2018 11:51 am (IST) The Rajya Sabha was today adjourned for the day without transacting any business after opposition Congress and parties from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh disrupted proceedings over various issues. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House barely four minutes after the start of proceedings, as members of opposition parties staged protests in the Well. No sooner were the listed papers laid on the table, members of Andhra parties including TDP and KVP Ramachandra Rao of the Congress trooped in the Well shouting slogans for special status for the state. Members of Tamil Nadu parties — DMK and AIADMK — too were in the Well demanding immediate constitution of the Cauvery Water Management Board for division of river water between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Congress members too joined them in the Well, shouting slogans against the government.   Mar 21, 2018 11:30 am (IST) Sources have told News18 that General VK Singh will go to Mosul next week to bring back the mortal remains of the 39 Indians kidnapped by ISIS. Singh will travel to Iraq in either a civilian chartered plane or an IAF plane. Right now, the process of preparing coffins is underway.As announced by External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Singh will then head to Punjab (probably Jalandhar), Bihar and Kolkata to hand over mortal remains to the families. It is unlikely that the General will travel to Baghdad.    Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala addresses a press conference at the party office in Bhopal on Wednesday. (PTI Photo) Stay tuned as Aditya Nair brings you the latest updates."				" Web 300x600 right ad Results Fixtures  31 May, 2018 | WI vs WRL 199/4 20.0 overs / overs West Indies beat ICC World XI by 72 runs Full Scorecard 27 May, 2018 | SRH vs CSK 178/6 20.0 overs 181/2 18.3 overs Chennai Super Kings beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 8 wickets Full Scorecard 25 May, 2018 | SRH vs KKR 174/7 20.0 overs 160/9 20.0 overs Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 14 runs Full Scorecard 24 - 27 May, 2018 | ENG vs PAK 184/10 58.2 overs 363/9 114.3 overs Pakistan beat England by 9 wickets Full Scorecard 23 May, 2018 | KKR vs RR 169/7 20.0 overs 144/4 20.0 overs Kolkata Knight Riders beat Rajasthan Royals by 25 runs Full Scorecard 03 Jun, 2018 | AFG vs BAN 05 Jun, 2018 | AFG vs BAN 06 Jun, 2018 | WI vs SL 07 Jun, 2018 | AFG vs BAN 10 Jun, 2018 | SCO vs ENG  Web 300x250 right Web 300x250 right RIGHTSIDE live blog ad script FOOTER Mobile ad bottom banner 300x250 Mobile ad sticky footer  Live TV    sections India Lifestyle Tech Politics Auto Sports iVideos Football Latest News France Show Attacking Firepower as They Down Italy 3-1 MS Dhoni Hosts Indian Cricket's Biggest Fan for Lunch PM Modi Unveils Mahatma Gandhi's Plaque With Former Singaporean Premier Saudi Arabia Reshuffles Cabinet With Eye on Culture Bihar Result 2018: Bihar 10th Result Will be Declared on June 20. Chech Your Score at biharboard.ac.in About Us Privacy Policy Disclaimer Contact Us Sitemap Complaint Redressal Advertise With Us Network 18 Sites News18 India CricketNext Bangla News Gujarati News Urdu News Marathi News Topper Moneycontrol Firstpost CompareIndia History India MTV India In.com E-Learning Franchise Opportunity CNN name, logo and all associated elements ® and © 2016 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. A Time Warner Company. All rights reserved. CNN and the CNN logo are registered marks of Cable News Network, LP LLLP, displayed with permission. Use of the CNN name and/or logo on or as part of NEWS18.com does not derogate from the intellectual property rights of Cable News Network in respect of them. © Copyright Network18 Media and Investments Ltd 2016. All rights reserved. mobile interstitial web interstitial flying ads code starts here flying ads code ends here Mobile ad script Google Code for Remarketing Tag bing "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																								
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w945]BJP questions Congress links with firm at centre of Facebook data breach  BJP questions Congress links with firm at centre of Facebook data breach  BJP questions Congress links with firm at centre of Facebook data breach  The BJP today questioned links between the Congress and Cambridge Analytica, a data mining firm accused of harvesting personal information from Facebook illegally to influence polls in several countries, and wondered if it will now depend on ""data theft"" to woo voters. Party leader Ravi Shankar Prasad cited media reports about the opposition partys plan to use the firms services for the next Lok Sabha elections and to boost its president Rahul Gandhis profile. He asked Gandhi to explain the companys role in his social media outreach. The firm, the Union minister said, has been accused of using ""sex, sleaze and fake news"" to influence elections and asked if the Congress too plans to walk the same path. ""The Congress must explain if it has engaged in data trade with Cambridge Analytica,"" he said, questioning the opposition partys ""silence"" despite numerous reports of its link with the company. Prasad, the law and IT minister, used the occasion to warn Facebook of stringent legal action against any misuse of data of more than 200 million Indians on its platform. Targeting the Congress, he said the number of Gandhis Twitter followers had shot up recently and wondered if it was due to the services of the firm that he achieved this ""fake popularity"". ""Will the Congress now depend on data manipulation and theft to woo voters?"" he asked. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asks BJP leaders to remain digitally and physically connected with the masses, he said, but the Congress seems to be depending on the digital medium to make up for its lack of connect on the ground. It is not a question of liaison between the Congress and a data firm but about attempts to influence democratic processes which his government would not allow, he said and warned Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg against any abuse of data of Indians on its platform. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w947]  spider trap end spider trap /1688062/Scoop_Big-Banner  Top Scoops      Werewolf Wellington Campbell Business Scoop Community Review of Books InfoPages Front Page Scoops Parliament Politics Regional Business Sci-Tech World Culture Education Health      Scoop Front Page Scoops Parliament Politics Regional Business Sci-Tech World Culture Education Health Network Werewolf Wellington Scoop Campbell Business Scoop Pacific Community Review of Books InfoPages Book Reviews | Gordon Campbell | Scoop News | Wellington Scoop | Community Scoop | Search   LEADER Scoop Media Cartel DFP Tag Scoop  Top Scoops     Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and Surveillance Capitalism Whether it creeps into politics, marketing, or simple profiling, the nature of surveillance as totality has been affirmed by certain events this decade. The Edward Snowden disclosures of 2013 demonstrated the complicity and collusion between Silicon Valley and the technological stewards of the national security state. It took the election of Donald J. Trump in 2016 to move the issue of social media profiling, sharing and targeting of information, to another level. Not only could companies such as Facebook monetise their user base; those details could, in turn, be plundered, mined and exploited for political purpose. As a social phenomenon, Facebook could not help but become a juggernaut inimical to the private sphere it has so comprehensively colonised. “Facebook in particular,” claimed WikiLeaks’ Julian Assange in May 2011, “is the most appalling spy machine that has ever been invented.” It furnished “the world’s most comprehensive database about people, their relationships, their names, their addresses, their locations, their communications with each other, and their relatives, all sitting within the United States, all accessible to US intelligence.” Now, the unsurprising role played by Cambridge Analytica with its Facebook accessory to politicise and monetise data reveals the tenuous ground notions of privacy rest upon. Outrage and uproar has been registered, much of it to do with a simple fact: data was used to manipulate, massage and deliver a result to Trump – or so goes the presumption. An instructive lesson here would be to run the counter-factual: had Hillary Clinton won, would this seething discontent be quite so enthusiastic? Scoop Media Cartel DFP Tag Be that as it may, the spoliations of Cambridge Analytica are embedded in a broader undertaking: the evisceration of privacy, and the generation of user profiles gathered through modern humanity’s most remarkable surveillance machine. The clincher here is the link with Facebook, though the company insists that it “received data from a contractor, which we deleted after Facebook told us the contractor had breached their terms of service.” Both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica have attempted to isolate and distance that particular contractor, a certain Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University researcher whose personality quiz app “thisisyourdigitallife” farmed the personal data of some 50 million users who were then micro-targeted for reasons of political advertising. The sinister genius behind this was the ballooning from the initial downloads – some 270,000 people – who exchanged personal data on their friends including their “likes” for personality predictions. A broader data set of profiles were thereby created and quarried. Kogan claims to have been approached by Cambridge Analytica, rather than the other way around, regarding “terms of usage of Facebook data”. He was also reassured that the scheme was legal, being “commercial” in nature and typical of the way “tens of thousands of apps” were using social media data. But it took Cambridge Analytica’s whistleblower, Christopher Wylie , to reveal that data obtained via Kogan’s app was, in fact, used for micro-targeting the US electorate in breach of privacy protocols. Mark Zuckerberg’s response has entailed vigorous hand washing. In 2015, he claims that Facebook had learned that Cambridge Analytica shared data from Kogan’s app. “It is against our policies for developers to share data without other people’s consent, so we immediately banned Kogan’s app from our platform”. Certifications were duly provided that such data had been deleted, though the crew at Facebook evidently took these at unverified face value. Not so, as matters transpired, leading to the claim that trust had not only been breached between Facebook, Kogan and Cambridge Analytica, but with the users themselves. Facebook, for its part, has been modestly contrite. “We have a responsibility to protect your data,” went Zuckerberg in a statement , “and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.” His posted statement attempts to water down the fuss. Data protections – most of them, at least – were already being put in place. He described the limitations placed on the accessing of user information by data apps connected to Facebook friends. The networked sphere, as it is termed in with jargon-heavy fondness by some academics, has seen the accumulation of data all set and readied for the “information civilisation” . Google’s chief economist Hal Varian has been singled out for special interest, keen on what he terms, in truly benign fashion, “computer-mediated transactions” . These entail “data extraction and analysis,” various “new contractual forms” arising from “better monitoring”, “personalisation and customisation” and “continuous experiments”. Such are the vagaries of the information age. As a user of such freely provided services, users are before a naked confessional, conceding and surrendering identities to third parties with Faustian ease. This surrender has its invidious by products, supplying intelligence and security services accessible data. Cambridge Analytica , for its part, sets itself up as an apotheosis of the information civilisation, a benevolent, professionally driven information hitman. “Data drives all we do,” it boldly states to potential clients. “Cambridge Analytica uses data to change audience behaviour.” This sounds rather different to the company’s stance on Saturday, when it claimed that, “Advertising is not coercive; people are smarter than that.” With cold show insistence, it insisted that, “This isn’t a spy movie.” Two services are provided suggesting that people are not, in the minds of its bewitchers, that intelligent: the arm of data-driven marketing designed to “improve your brand’s marketing effectiveness by changing consumer behaviour” and that of “data-driven campaigns” where “greater influence” is attained through “knowing your electorate better”. On the latter, it is boastful, claiming to have supported over 100 campaigns across five continents. “Within the United States alone, we have played a pivotal role in winning presidential races as well as congressional and state elections.” CA has donned its combat fatigues to battle critics. Its Board of Directors has suspended CEO Alexander Nix, claiming that “recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation.” The comments in question, caught in an undercover video, show Nix offering a range of services to the Channel 4 undercover reporter: Ukrainian sex workers posing as “honey-traps”; a video evidencing corruption that might be uploaded to the Internet; and operations with former spies. “We can set up fake IDs and Web sites, we can be students doing research projects attached to a university; we can be tourists.” The company has also attempted to debunk a set of what it sees as flourishing myths. It has not, for instance, been uncooperative with the UK’s data regulator, the Information Commissioner’s Office, having engaged it since February 2017. It rejects notions that it peddles fake news . “Fake news is a serious concern for all of us in the marketing industry.” (Nix’s cavalier advertising to prospective clients suggests otherwise.) In other respects, Cambridge Analytica also rejected using Facebook data in its political models, despite having obtained that same data. “We ran a standard political data science program with the same kind of political preference models used by other presidential campaigns.” Nor did it use personality profiles for the 2016 US Presidential election. Having only hopped on board in June, “we focused on the core elements of a core political data science program.” The company’s weasel wording has certainly been extensive. Nix has done much to meander, dodge and contradict. On the one hand, he would like to take credit for the company’s product – the swaying of a US election. But in doing so, it did not use “psychographic” profiles. Surveillance capitalism is the rope which binds the actors of this latest drama in the annals of privacy’s demise. There are discussions that political data mining designed to manipulate and sway elections be considered in the same way political donations are. But in the US, where money and political information are oft confused as matters of freedom, movement on this will be slow. The likes of Cambridge Analytica and similar information mercenaries will continue thriving. Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College, Cambridge. He lectures at RMIT University, Melbourne. Scoop readers - Donate and help us create quality, independent news & journalism that is freely available to the public. Become a Supporter Professionals - 'At work' users of Scoop need a ScoopPro licence. This keeps Scoop open, plus licensed users enjoy exclusive new tools. More about ScoopPro Find more from Binoy Kampmark on InfoPages.   /article     Top Scoops Headlines COMMENT Scoop Media Cartel DFP Tag /doubleleft-col   Gordon Campbell: On Why We Should Be Anxious About Artificial Intelligence Frankly, the prospect of possibly losing half the existing forms of paid employment to AI does make me feel extremely anxious, given the indifference shown by central government to the downstream social damage caused by the reform process last time around... More>> ALSO: NZ Govt - Government to undertake urgent algorithm stocktake Binoy Kampmark: Tom Wolfe The Parajournalist As New Journalism’s primary advocate, Tom Wolfe headed the field with such experimental forces as Norman Mailer, Truman Capote and Hunter S. Thompson, all dedicated to enriching supposedly factual accounts with excessive flourishes that hurried out the beige in favour of the kaleidoscopic. More>> Gordon Campbell: On Racism And The Windsors For all the talk about the modernizing effect that Meghan Markle could have on the Royal Family, the suspicion all along has been that the House of Windsor is resistant to change at any level beyond the purely decorative. More>> Gordon Campbell: On Prospects Of US Talks With North Korea On June 12, the leaders of North Korea and the United States will meet across a table in Singapore, and Kim Jong Un must already be feeling giddy at the thought that this meeting is already being described with the word “summit” formerly reserved for meetings between superpowers of equal stature... Image: Steve Bolton NZ's contribution to the IAEA’s work on North Korea United Nations - UN chief ‘optimistic’ over peace efforts David Swanson - Enough is Enough. The Time Has Come to BDS the US - Peace Comes to Korea: Let’s Understand Why CTBTO - CTBTO on North Korea NZ Govt - NZ welcomes talks between North and South Korea Massey University - Nukes to cyber war – NZ security in focus Jim Miles - The Doomsday Machine - Confessions of a Nuclear War Planner UNHCHR - North Korea detente: UN expert urges human rights opening Binoy Kampmark - Trump, North Korea and Post-Olympic Angst Gordon Campbell: On National’s Latest Attempts At Relevance Having ignored the existence of massive problems in health and education for nine years in government, it is no longer politically viable for National to maintain the pretence that such problems really don’t exist, or are somehow unworthy of serious concern by rational men of commerce.... More>> /container        /1688062/Scoop_Premium-Rectangle    Ōtangarei Papakāinga homes a new beginning Getting ex-offenders into jobs The establishment of affordable housing zones Meth compensation: Twyford not ruling it out, or in More housing for whānau in Northland Waipareira launches Winter Campaign Exciting plans under way to commemorate first meetings  RSS  News Alerts /right-tabs   /1688062/Scoop_Rectangle     /1688062/Scoop_Rectangle-South    Hard News: Music: The Noisy Library turns five 31 May | Russell Brown Access: Of value in and of itself 31 May | Chelle Hope Up Front: A Word About Safety 29 May | Emma Hart Hard News: We are, at last, navigating out of the ... 29 May | Russell Brown Feed: World of Food 6: Angola – Funge 28 May | Amberleigh Jack Hard News: Protecting privilege in Epsom 22 May | Russell Brown Hard News: Budget 2018: The broadcasting shambles 17 May | Russell Brown  RSS  News Alerts Meth house clean-up only just begun 12:38 AM | Tim Watkin Common Good Economics 10:40 AM | Brian Easton New welfare taskforce is a slow train... but on wh... 29 May | Sue Bradford It’s easy to be friends with one who shares the sa... 7:27 AM | Baden Vertongen Of Foxes and Hedgehogs 3:28 AM | Brian Easton What does the Labour’s first budget tell us? 20 May | Brian Easton Why can’t we all just get along? 3:33 AM | Baden Vertongen  RSS  News Alerts Meet a second striker #3 2:00 AM | David Farrar Tamihere asks where’s the money? 12:00 AM | David Farrar Interesting analysis on Roseanne 10:00 PM | David Farrar General Debate 2 June 2018 8:00 PM | Kokila Patel Fix the Holidays Act 7:00 PM | David Farrar H2 in charge of the health review 4:00 AM | David Farrar Meet a second striker #2 2:00 AM | David Farrar  RSS  News Alerts /right-tabs   Comment Section Blogroll Black Box Voting Buzz Flash The Brad Blog Democracy Now Else Woman Global Research Greg Palast Progressive Review Ramzy Baroud Solari T r u t h o u t /right-col   /LEADER end content   /outer-wrapper      /header-base /header-wrapper  Contact About Services Newsagent Donate Submit News Social Media Scoop Network Scoop Foundation Licensed Orgs. ScoopPro Licensing Apply for a licence Terms of Use © Scoop Media /top-strip end content   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w948] [if lt IE 7]> < class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7""> endif] [if IE 7 < class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""no-js lt-ie9""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w949]    New Zealand Herald nzherald.co.nz Saturday, 02 June 2018   Sign into your NZ Herald Register here Find out more My News Your news how you want it. On the go and no time to finish that story right now? Your News is the place for you to save content to read later from any device. Register with us and content you save will appear here so you can access them to read later. Find out more Register now Home  >  World New Zealand Regional News Sport Business Property Technology World Opinion TimeOut Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Rural OneRoof Property YUDU Jobs Driven Motoring News Video Photos Puzzles & Quizzes Classifieds  Crime Politics Health Education Environment NZ Herald Focus Premium & Indepth Infographics Property Weather NZH Local Focus The Northern Advocate The Northland Age The Aucklander Hamilton News Bay of Plenty Times Hawke's Bay Today Rotorua Daily Post Wanganui Chronicle Stratford Press Manawatu Guardian Kapiti News Horowhenua Chronicle Te Awamutu Courier Sports Scene Rugby League Cricket Football Netball Basketball Golf Motorsport Sailing Hockey Tennis eSports UFC Boxing Athletics Triathlon Racing American Sports Budget 2018 Small Business Business Opinion Personal Finance Currency Table Economy Business Travel Deloitte Top 200 Property Herald Homes OneRoof Property True Commercial Spy TV Movies Books Music Culture Sideswipe Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Relationships Wellbeing Pets & Animals Bite Viva Canvas Horoscopes Restaurants & Menus Africa Americas Asia Australia Europe Middle East NZ Travel Pacific Sudoku Codecracker Crosswords Wordsearch Daily quizzes  Super Rugby All Blacks Lions Tour Rugby Champs NPC Six Nations Black Caps Domestic Cricket F1 V8 Rally Indycar Bikes Speedway GT NASCAR Drifting Driven Recipes Restaurant Reviews Restaurants & Menus Trending Topics Fees for NZ's Great Walks All Blacks 1995 'poisoning' Rental property heating Moo goes there?  Weather Weather Home Kaitaia Whangarei Dargaville Auckland Thames Tauranga Hamilton Whakatane Rotorua Tokoroa Te Kuiti Taumarunui Taupo Gisborne New Plymouth Napier Hastings Dannevirke Whanganui Palmerston North Levin Paraparaumu Masterton Wellington Motueka Nelson Blenheim Westport Reefton Kaikoura Greymouth Hokitika Christchurch Ashburton Timaru Wanaka Oamaru Queenstown Dunedin Gore Invercargill  NZME Network NZ Herald The Northern Advocate The Northland Age The Aucklander Hamilton News Bay Of Plenty Times Rotorua Daily Post Hawke's Bay Today Wanganui Chronicle The Stratford Press Manawatu Guardian Kapiti News Horowhenua Chronicle Te Awamutu Courier Viva Bite Spy OneRoof YUDU Driven Motoring True Commercial The Country NZ Herald Insights Chinese Herald NewsPix WatchMe GrabOne iHeart Radio Restaurant Hub  follow NZ HERALD on:    Listen Live From breaking news to debate and conversation, we bring you the news as it happens    All things property Whether you’re looking to buy or rent, OneRoof.co.nz has everything you need to find your dream home.  About NZME Help & Support Contact Us Subscribe to NZ Herald Manage Your Subscription NZ Herald Digital Edition Advertise with NZME Book Your Ad Privacy Policy Terms of Use Competition Terms & Conditions © Copyright 2018 NZME. Publishing Limited  test test test    Major fire at Dublin hotel  With fate of economy in his hands, Powell plays it low-key   Advertisement Advertise with NZME.  How Cambridge Analytica's whistleblower became Facebook's unlikely foil 22 Mar, 2018 2:28pm 12 minutes to read Chris Wylie, from Canada, who once worked for the UK-based political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. Photo / AP           The crisis ravaging Facebook started when a young researcher, regretful over his role in turning data on an estimated tens of millions of US voters into a high-tech political persuasion machine, decided to come forward with his story. And he imagined that Facebook, whose user profiles were part of that effort, could be a partner in helping to exhume this painful truth and perhaps embrace some changes to its privacy policy. But instead of a joint announcement, Christopher Wylie awoke at the weekend in London, where he lives, to the news that Facebook had published a blog post announcing the suspensions of him, his former employer and one other person for allegedly mishandling Facebook data in an incident that happened in 2014 and had been known to Facebook for more than a year. That explosive moment last weekend turned Wylie, 28, into an unlikely foil to one of the tech industry's most powerful and lucrative companies. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. The onetime student of fashion trends with pink hair and a stubborn streak has delivered revelations that have triggered government investigations on both sides of the Atlantic, sent Facebook's stock price plunging and pushed long-simmering privacy concerns to a boil. ""I didn't set out to attack Facebook. Facebook has just been incredibly uncooperative,"" Wylie said. ""It hasn't respected the role of the media and scrutiny and embraced this scrutiny and worked to improve itself."" What happened instead, he said, was an ""own goal"" by Facebook. In hours of interviews with the Washington Post this week, Wylie traced his work for the data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica, his growing misgivings before he quit in 2014 and his shock and horror when the company's most famous client, Donald Trump, won the presidency nearly two years later. He also described previously unreported contact with Corey Lewandowski, Trump's first campaign manager, in the northern spring of 2015. Lewandowski denied any contact. And Wylie shared his suspicion - though unconfirmed - that data collected and used by Cambridge Analytica may have fallen into Russian hands. But Wylie spoke with particular passion about his own feelings of guilt for helping to develop an advanced new form of political targeting that was used by people whose conservative politics are the opposite of his own. Related articles: How to block apps tracking you on Facebook 22 Mar, 2018 2:44pm  Zuckerberg admits mistakes, will audit thousands of Facebook apps 22 Mar, 2018 8:44am  How Facebook 'lost control of its data' 22 Mar, 2018 7:20am Some say that Wylie is a flawed whistleblower, that he never should have helped collect data on tens of millions of Facebook users and should not have waited years to publicly reveal his misgivings about working for Cambridge Analytica. But he says he's trying to make matters right by speaking out now. ""I literally left a ticking time bomb,"" Wylie said in his lawyer's London office. ""I didn't quite appreciate that I had done that. And then it blew up.""         Wylie, a Canadian citizen, moved to London in 2010 and started to work in 2013 for SCL Group, which he said conducted ""information operations"" around the world and also worked in campaigns, especially in African nations. As research director, Wylie helped that company give birth to Cambridge Analytica as ""an American brand"" that would focus on US politics with at least US$10 million from billionaire hedge fund manager Robert Mercer. The Cambridge Analytica office was in the posh Mayfair neighbourhood of London, and the dozens of young workers - many of them contractors, a number of whom were from Eastern Europe - buzzed about with Apple laptops. At the helm, said Wylie, was Mercer's daughter Rebekah, who was president, and conservative strategist Steve Bannon, who was vice president. Running day-to-day operations was a smooth-talking upper-crust Briton, Alexander Nix. Nix did not respond to requests for comment. Cambridge Analytica suspended Nix on Wednesday after a British television sting showed him on secret recordings talking about employing unethical tactics to win elections, including bribery and using sex workers for ""honey pots."" Wylie said he helped set up the television station's sting. Wylie said that it was under Nix's direction - but with the knowledge of Bannon and Rebekah Mercer - that Cambridge Analytica began an ambitious data-gathering programme that included tapping into the Facebook profiles of 50 million users through the use of a personality-testing app. The company did that with the help of a Russian American psychologist at Cambridge University, Aleksandr Kogan, who also made regular visits back to Russia, according to Wylie. “There’s no paper trail… [We set our] emails with a self-destruct timer.” EXCLUSIVE: Trump’s election consultants secretly filmed revealing how they cover their tracks. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/63M4clwAkq — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Wylie said he and others at Cambridge Analytica were initially sceptical of the power of this tactic for gathering data. But when the company approved US$1000 for Kogan to experiment with his app, he produced data on 1000 people who downloaded it and roughly 160,000 of their friends - all in a matter of hours. Cambridge Analytica next approved US$10,000 for a second round of testing and was rewarded with nearly a million records, including names, home towns, dates of birth, religious affiliations, work and educational histories, and preferences, as expressed using the popular Facebook ""like"" button on many social media updates, news stories and other online posts. They soon married that data with voter lists and commercial data broker information and discovered they had a remarkably precise portrait of a large swath of the American electorate. Kogan's app, called ""thisisyourdigitallife"" and portrayed as being for research purposes, gathered data on the 270,000 people who downloaded it and tens of millions of their Facebook friends. It was this data and others that Wylie later worried might have ended up in Russian hands. EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they “ran all the digital campaign” for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities. pic.twitter.com/kS0n88n5ud — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 ""I'm not saying that we put it on a drive and posted it to Vladimir Putin on Number 1 Red Square,"" Wylie said, referring to the Russian president's official residence. But he said that he and others affiliated with Cambridge Analytica briefed Lukoil, a Russian oil company, on its research into American voters. He said Kogan also made regular visits to Russia but acknowledged that he did not know what Kogan did there. Kogan has not replied to requests for comment. Kogan called the suggestions that he was a spy ""just silly"" in an email, seen by CNN, that he wrote to colleagues at Cambridge University. ""If I am Russian spy, I am the world's dumbest spy."" For Wylie, a data scientist with an avid interest in politics and culture, the collection of Facebook and other data did not initially trouble him. The social media platform made such data grabs easy for app developers - though it began severely restricting them in 2015 - and Wylie saw it as a powerful way to study an entire nation on a scale at once broad and precise. Combined with other data, Cambridge Analytica hoped to profile the entire American electorate - something it already had done in other countries - and determine what pitches would work best for each individual voter.         The project also appeared to excite its benefactors. One former Cambridge Analytica employee, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal corporate matters, described hearing Rebekah Mercer express over the phone excitement at the results of 2014 congressional midterms, when Republicans made significant gains to which Cambrige Analytica said it had contributed. But Wylie and others clashed with Nix, whom he called a ""bully."" Wylie also grew weary of the increasingly far-right tenor of the politics the researchers were helping to propel. They discovered and refined potent themes about keeping out immigrants, ""draining the swamp"" and restoring an earlier era of national greatness - as understood mainly to mean for white American men. When Wylie told Nix at a London coffee shop in 2014 that he was going to leave at the end of the year, he heard a boast that at the time sounded ridiculous but, in retrospect, haunted him. ""Just you wait,"" Nix told Wylie, according to his recollection. ""You're going to leave, but we're going to be in the White House."" But it was not clear to Wylie at that point who might lead such an eventual White House bid. In fact, Cambridge Analytica worked with Senator Ted Cruz, (R), during the presidential primary before signing on with the Trump campaign. Reporter: “So the candidate is the puppet?"" Cambridge Analytica: “Always.” EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump's campaign consultants secretly filmed discussing US politics. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/Q8dfb1kCaN — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Months after he and several other Cambridge Analytica employees quit the firm, they got a mysterious message from somebody purporting to represent the Trump Organisation. Wylie and others, unfamiliar with Trump's brewing political ambitions, thought they might find themselves somehow involved in Trump's Apprentice reality television show. Wylie said he ended up speaking with Lewandowski, Trump's first campaign manager, in conference calls in which Lewandowski reportedly described a forthcoming Trump run for president. Lewandowski later met in person with several of Wylie's former Cambridge Analytica colleagues at Trump Tower in spring 2015, Wylie said in an account backed by one of those people who did attend. But the plan to work for the campaign doing voter analysis fizzled, in large part because the mostly liberal former Cambridge Analytica employees didn't want to wade back into conservative politics. Lewandowski said the campaign had been pitched by Cambridge Analytica but never hired them and had no recollection of meeting with any former employees. ""I've never heard of those guys,"" Lewandowski said of Wylie and the other former employees. ""It didn't happen."" But the brief flirtation did have a concrete consequence. SCL Group threatened legal action against Wylie for supposedly violating a ""noncompete"" clause he signed before quitting. Wylie was confused - he had no idea that the company considered Trump a client or potential client - and began to suspect that he had been set up. To resolve the legal dispute, he signed a nondisclosure agreement that would later complicate his efforts to speak out about the work he had done for Cambridge Analytica. ""Send some girls around to the candidates house” EXCLUSIVE: This is how Cambridge Analytica bosses reacted when our reporter brought up the subject of digging dirt on political opponents. #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered pic.twitter.com/ghtQkM4smL — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Wylie's sense of uneasiness about that work began building when he heard Trump, in 2016, start using themes that Cambridge Analytica had developed in 2014 about building walls and draining the swamp. More than most, Wylie knew the science behind why they might be effective. His discomfort grew when Bannon formally joined the Trump campaign in August 2016. Election results on November 8, 2016, filled Wylie with a profound sense of dread. A friend who worked on the campaign of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and was familiar with Wylie's previous work sent him a message saying, ""What did you do?"" ""Manipulating an election in a small developing country doesn't have the same sort of ripple effect of electing Donald Trump into the White House,"" Wylie said. ""It hit home at the inauguration."" It is unclear how much Cambridge Analytica contributed to Trump's win. Soon after Trump's inauguration, Wylie began talking with Observer reporter Carole Cadwalladr, who had been working on stories about Cambridge Analytica. He also retained a lawyer, Tamsin Allen, and began working directly with Britain's Information Commissioner's Office, which started an investigation into Cambridge Analytica. Earlier this month, Wylie received a sharply worded letter from Facebook, which demanded access to his smartphone and computer. He refused, saying that he already had shared information with the British authorities and saw no reason to do so with a private company - especially one whose own activities might be called into question. ""I look forward to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you."" Alexander Nix, Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica, told @Channel4News he's had ""lots of experience"" in setting up ""fake IDs"", ""websites"" and posing as ""students during research projects"". pic.twitter.com/4FoOH48vgd — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 It was not Wylie's first encounter with Facebook. The company had sent a letter in August 2016 saying that Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, should not have shared the data of Facebook users. Downloading names, home towns, work histories and ""likes"" of 50 million users was not against the rules - at least in 2014 - but Kogan should not have transferred the data to Cambridge Analytica, Facebook wrote. Facebook wanted the data destroyed. Wylie said he complied with that request, though he does not know if Kogan or Cambridge Analytica did. (Cambridge Analytica has issued several statements in recent days denying any wrongdoing.) Silicon Valley-based Facebook posted a blog Friday evening - early Saturday morning in London - announcing the suspension of Kogan, Wylie and the parent company of Cambridge Analytica. When he was awakened by a call around 3 a.m. from a reporter, Wylie was furious at Facebook for acting unilaterally and accusing him of misdeeds when he had come forward to authorities. Days later, he still is. Wylie's career as Facebook critic quickly moved to a new level. Lawmakers in the United States and Europe began demanding that Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg personally explain how the data of 50 million users reached a mysterious company with ties to Bannon, the Mercers and Trump. State attorneys general began investigating. So did the Federal Trade Commission over concerns that Facebook had violated a 2011 consent decree over privacy issues. When told that Wylie thought he had been mistreated by Facebook, the social media company responded that Cambridge Analytica and Kogan had agreed to an audit of their servers and systems. ""Mr Wylie thus far has declined."" Facebook on Wednesday said it would conduct audits of thousands of apps in response to the ""breach of trust"" caused by Cambridge Analytica.         ""Facebook is not the government. Facebook is not the state. I'm working with the legal authority,"" Wylie said, referring to the Information Commissioner's Office. ""I'm not going to be bullied by Facebook."" As for the broader issues - the privacy intrusions of the data collection, the manipulation of voters, the possible role in electing Trump, the possibility that Cambridge Analytica's work might have reached Russians - Wylie feels remorse. Wylie says he wants to expose the machinations of data gathering for political purposes as fully as he's able. He dreams of resuming his work as a data scientist some day. For now, he is something like a full-time whistleblower. In an emotional moment on Wednesday at the Frontline Club, a journalists' club in London, Wylie told a packed audience said that his decision to step forward was about taking responsibility. ""If you've done something wrong, the first step is to try to own up and tell people about it,"" he said. ""I'm on my first step."" “It’s no good fighting an election campaign on the facts because actually it’s all about emotion” EXCLUSIVE: Senior Cambridge Analytica figures say they targeted voter's unspoken hopes and fears to help win elections. #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered pic.twitter.com/rMbRNvRSMU — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 “It has to happen without anyone thinking: ‘that’s propaganda.’ EXCLUSIVE: The art of disguising propaganda - Cambridge Analytica bosses discuss the subtle techniques behind hidden online political messaging. #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered pic.twitter.com/CRmb3jdOQQ — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018          Trending Topics Fees for NZ's Great Walks All Blacks 1995 'poisoning' Rental property heating Moo goes there?  Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Latest from World  Cheeky cockatoo photobombs Australian traffic cam 2 Jun, 2018 11:08am Quick Read  US Congressional candidate admits he's a paedophile, white supremacist 2 Jun, 2018 9:57am 5 minutes to read  TIME's genius latest cover 2 Jun, 2018 8:26am Quick Read  Why Vladimir Putin has no fear 2 Jun, 2018 8:12am 6 minutes to read  Trump says summit with Kim Jong Un is back on 2 Jun, 2018 7:00am 4 minutes to read  Most Popular  Inside broadcaster Peter Williams' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun, 2018 8:24am 2 minutes to read  Why Vladimir Putin has no fear 2 Jun, 2018 8:12am 6 minutes to read  Live streaming: Auckland v Tonga New Zealand Residents 28 May, 2018 12:13pm Quick Read     28 May, 2018 12:13pm 12 minutes to read   Latest News Most Read  Anderson keys White Sox's comeback in 8-3 win over Brewers 2 Jun, 2018 3:45pm 4 minutes to read  Friday's Major League Linescores 2 Jun, 2018 3:45pm 2 minutes to read  Springer dash, drive send Cole, Astros over Sale, Bosox 7-3 2 Jun, 2018 3:40pm 3 minutes to read  Hands off my data! 15 default privacy settings you should change right now 2 Jun, 2018 3:00pm 11 minutes to read  Inside broadcaster Peter Williams' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun, 2018 1:15pm 2 minutes to read  Why Vladimir Putin has no fear 2 Jun, 2018 8:12am 6 minutes to read  Live streaming: Auckland v Tonga New Zealand Residents 2 Jun, 2018 12:13pm Quick Read  'ABs hotel was like a war film': New details of 1995 'poisoning' 2 Jun, 2018 9:50am 4 minutes to read  Advertisement Advertise with NZME.   Trending on NZ Herald   Ex-MLB pitcher eyes role with NZ baseball team 2 Jun, 2018 3:30pm 4 minutes to read After seven years in Major League Baseball, Josh Collmenter is headed down under.    Inside broadcaster Peter Williams' multimillion-dollar home 2 Jun, 2018 1:15pm 2 minutes to read The veteran TV presenter lets Herald Homes inside his St Mary's Bay abode.     Woman lands dream job with a playlist and tweet 2 Jun, 2018 1:00pm Quick Read Think you're a master of playlist-making? It could get you a job one day.   National Business Sport Property World Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Technology    "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w950] HTML Cambridge Analytica: Rahul Gandhi terms data theft charges an invention by BJP to take attention away from the death of 39 Indians in Mosul Server: 131 [if lte IE 8]>  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w951]   Facebook Data Mining Scandal: Rahul Gandhi Says Govt 'Invented' Story to Take Attention Off Indians' Deaths in Iraq - News18 Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) GET Stock English हिन्दी বাংলা मराठी ગુજરાતી தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football Food Photos World Lifestyle TV Shows TV Videos Travel Business Health and Fitness Blogs Podcast Immersives IPL Karnataka Elections Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan English English हिन्दी Hindi বাংলা Bengali मराठी Marathi ગુજરાતી Gujarati தமிழ் Tamil ಕನ್ನಡ Kannada ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Punjabi اردو Urdu മലയാളം Malayalam  Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football All Sections LIVE TV Home Politics India Opinion Movies Tech Auto Lifestyle iVideos Cricket Football Food Photos World Lifestyle TV Shows TV Videos Travel Business Health and Fitness Blogs Podcast Immersives IPL Karnataka Elections Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan Latest News Photos Buzz Lifestyle World Sports Stocks Business Immersives Women Mission Poshan      Home Photos Politics Opinion Cricket Movies India Rahul Gandhi Says Govt 'Invented' FB Data Mining Story to Take Attention Off Indians' Deaths in Mosul Sailing in the Same NDA Boat, Uddhav Thackeray and Nitish Kumar Share 2019 Dilemma Akhilesh Proposes Joint Candidate Against PM Modi in 2019, Congress Non-Committal BJP Takes Offence to Criticism of Rajinikanth's Anti-social Infiltration Theory for Tuticorin Violence  Powered by      "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w952] India Warns Against Social Media Data Misuse Ahead Of Elections ads_top_1x1 ads_pushdown  IN   Australia    Brasil    Canada    Deutschland    España    France    Ελλάδα (Greece)    Italia     日本 (Japan)    한국 (Korea)    Maghreb    México    Québec (en français)    South Africa    United Kingdom    United States    /Top nav News World The Morning Wrap Business Blogs Viral Video Congressional Candidate In Virginia Admits He’s A Pedophile Meet The 'Intimacy Directors' Who Choreograph Sex Scenes Facebook To Shut Down 'Trending' News Section In Favor Of Breaking News Test Deadly Brain-Damaging Nipah Virus Kills 2 More People In Kerala, Death Toll Rises To 15 Politics Congress BJP AAP CPM Narendra Modi Rahul Gandhi Arvind Kejriwal Mayawati Uttar Pradesh Punjab A Muslim Woman Makes The BJP Eat Humble Pie In Kairana BJP Suffers Massive Defeat In Kairana By-Poll; Its Third Consecutive Lok Sabha Loss In UP These Indian Women’s Lives Are Frozen By American Immigration Laws Cobrapost Sting: Softbank and Alibaba, Paytm's Foreign Investors, Mum Over Alleged Privacy Breach Analysis Shivam Vij R. Jagannathan G. Pramod Kumar T.S. Sudhir Sandip Roy Arati R Jerath Congressional Candidate In Virginia Admits He’s A Pedophile Meet The 'Intimacy Directors' Who Choreograph Sex Scenes Facebook To Shut Down 'Trending' News Section In Favor Of Breaking News Test Deadly Brain-Damaging Nipah Virus Kills 2 More People In Kerala, Death Toll Rises To 15 Business Fuel Prices Have Been Reduced By 1 Paisa, Not 60 Paisa, Clarifies Indian Oil After Error On Website With Petrol And Diesel Prices At Record High, Centre To Take 'Long-Term' View On Surging Fuel Costs How Amazon Is Holding Seattle Hostage Update: SoftBank CEO Confirms US Retail Giant Walmart Is Buying Majority Stakes In Flipkart Entertainment Bollywood Comedy Viral Video Reviews Congressional Candidate In Virginia Admits He’s A Pedophile Serena Williams Doesn't Want To Be A Size 4: 'This Is Me' Kareena Kapoor On Her Problems With Feminism, Sustaining Stardom, And Why #MeToo Hasn't Hit Bollywood Chris Pratt Responds To Fans Still Upset About Star-Lord's Actions In 'Infinity War' Lifestyle Tech What's Working Books Style Food Travel Naomi Campbell’s Stunning Fashion Career In 48 Runway Photos Meet The 'Intimacy Directors' Who Choreograph Sex Scenes Facebook No Longer The Dominant Social Media Platform For Teens 13 Breakfast Items With More Sugar Than A Doughnut Blogs Muslim Women On Their Periods Shouldn’t Feel Awkward Eating Around Their Families During Ramadan 6 Money Moves Every Woman Should Make Before Having Kids How To Be A Parent Your Child Wants To Talk To Which Of The 8 Kinds Of Intelligence Does Your Child Have? MORE    The Morning Wrap     Analysis     Business     Tech     Books     Style     Food     Bollywood     Comedy     Social Media     Travel     Video     Viral     iOS App     Android App     Data     Breaking Free     HuffPost Partner Studio   /.more-menu__content /.more-menu ads_leaderboard_flex  ads_splash_takeover  India Warns Against Social Media Data Misuse Ahead Of Elections ""Abuse of social media including Facebook cannot be allowed to impact the fairness of elections.""     JOHANNES EISELE via Getty Images   ads_sharebox_260x60 NEW DELHI - India's information technology minister on Wednesday warned against any abuse of social media in elections, following reports that a British consultancy improperly accessed information on millions of Facebook users to target U.S. voters. entry_paragraph_1_ad India is due to hold a national election in 2019 and several states will elect new assemblies this year and next. ""Abuse of social media including Facebook cannot be allowed to impact the fairness of elections,"" Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters. entry_paragraph_2_ad ""In the wake of recent data theft from Facebook, let my stern warning be heard across the Atlantic, far away in California. Any covert or overt attempt to misuse social media including Facebook to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be tolerated, nor be permitted."" entry_paragraph_3_ad Facebook said Prasad had raised several important questions and the company appreciates his attention to this matter. ""We will continue to engage with the government on this matter. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect peoples' information and will take whatever steps are required that this happens,"" the company said in a statement. entry_paragraph_4_ad British consultancy Cambridge Analytica has denied media accusations that it improperly accessed millions of Facebook users' information and said it deleted the data after learning that it did not adhere to data protection rules. Facebook has said it has tightened its controls on such practices since it discovered the alleged abuses by Cambridge Analytica in 2015. Also on HuffPost India: Slideshow Embed Bend It Like Our Netas look for a preview text title or social title Slideshow overlay Bend It Like Our Netas Slideshow overlay sharebar     Slideshow Overlay Header 1 of 11  Share this slide:    Slideshow Overlay Slides Container Slideshow Overlay  ads_article_bottom Suggest a correction  Tech   Desktop and Mapi Conversations Mobile Conversations  More On This Topic     ads_below_entry_base ads_below_entry_recirc ads_article_foot  ads_right_rail_upper ads_right_rail_flex ads_upper_sponsorship   Trending    Just In: Ranbir Kapoor Confirms He's Dating Alia Bhatt   Kareena Kapoor On Her Problems With Feminism, Sustaining Stardom, And Why #MeToo Hasn't Hit Bollywood   Thinking of Buying a New Car? Here are 4 Reasons you should consider buying a SUV instead   Not Sure If You Noticed, These Kickass Bollywood Dialogues Make So Much Sense In Real Life   Cobrapost Founder: We Are A Banana Republic, And The Aftermath Of Operation 136 Made The Mainstream Media Look Even Worse   Patanjali’s Khimbo App Withdrawn From Google Play As Experts Say Its Security Is A Joke   The Insanely Simple Tinder Hack That Got Me 20X More Matches   Queen Elizabeth's Previously Unseen Photo Of Prince Harry And Meghan Markle Is Too Cute   A Muslim Woman Makes The BJP Eat Humble Pie In Kairana   Priyanka Chopra Is Dating Nick Jonas: US Media Reports  SUBSCRIBE AND FOLLOW Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. Learn more Newsletter Please enter a valid email address Thank you for signing up! You should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. There was a problem processing your signup; please try again later /.email    ads_text_sponsorship ads_right_rail_lower      SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER     ads_leaderboard_bottom    RSS     FAQ     User Agreement (Updated)     Privacy (Updated)     About Us     Contact Us       Copyright © 2018 Oath Brands (India) Private Limited      All rights reserved.   Part of HuffPost News ads_bottom_1x1 modulous footer START Parse.ly END Parse.ly Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w953]   Mark Zuckerberg Has No Way Out Of Facebook’s Quagmire - Bloomberg Quint    top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings     Article details     Leonid Bershidsky  March 22 2018, 2:31PM  March 21 2018, 5:36PM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line (Bloomberg View) -- I think I understand why Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg hasn't publicly responded to the Cambridge Analytica scandal. He's stuck in a catch-22. Any fix for Facebook's previous big problem -- fake news -- would make the current big problem with data harvesting worse.   As a media company and one of Americans' top sources of information, Facebook's de facto anonymity and general lack of responsibility for user-generated content make it easy for propagandists to exploit. Making matters worse, it isn't willing to impose tighter identification rules for fear of losing too many users, and it doesn't want to be held responsible in any way for content, preferring to present itself as a neutral platform. So Zuckerberg has been trying to fix the problem by showing people more  material from friends and family and by prioritizing  ""trusted publishers""  and local news sources over purveyors of fake news.  ""Making sure time spent on Facebook is time well spent,"" as Zuckerberg puts it, should lead to the collection of better-quality data. If nobody is setting up fake accounts to spread disinformation, users are more likely to be their normal selves. Anyone analyzing these healthier interactions will likely have more success in targeting commercial and, yes, political offerings to real people. This would inevitably be a smaller yet still profitable enterprise, and no longer a growing one, at least in the short term. But the Cambridge Analytica scandal shows people may not be okay with Facebook's data gathering, improved or not. The scandal follows the revelation (to most Facebook users who read about it) that, until 2015, application developers on the social network's platform were able to get information about a user's Facebook friends after asking permission in the most perfunctory way. The 2012 Obama campaign used this functionality. So -- though in a more underhanded way -- did Cambridge Analytica, which may or may not have used the data to help elect President Donald Trump. Many people are angry at Facebook for not acting more resolutely to prevent CA's abuse, but if that were the whole problem, it would have been enough for Zuckerberg to apologize and point out that the offending functionality hasn't been available for several years. The #deletefacebook campaign -- now  backed  by WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton, whom Facebook made a billionaire -- is, however, powered by a bigger problem than that. People are worried about the data Facebook is accumulating about them and about how these data are used. Facebook itself works with political campaigns to help them target messages; it did so for the Trump campaign, too, perhaps helping it more than CA did. The anger over the CA incident is akin to the more benign anti-Facebook outbreak in 2014 after revelations that Facebook had been running secret psychological experiments on users, attempting to alter their mood by tweaking their newsfeeds. People may give up personal data easily for the sake of convenience, but they hate being turned into guinea pigs.  Is there a Zuckerberg response that would reassure users that this is not going to happen to them? In theory, sure. Zuckerberg could say his platform would reject all political advertising, take measures against all data scraping and provide no data to political actors. That, however, would be a slippery slope; nobody wants to be a guinea pig for big corporations, either. Give users a finger and they'll bite off the whole arm, destroying Facebook's painstakingly built microtargeting-based business model. Or if they don't, they'll take precautions , disguise themselves, and delete or obscure much of their personal data. Smaller sacrifices, however, may be useless against the critical mass of popular disapproval that has accumulated while Zuckerberg struggled with his minimalist solution to the fake news issue. What do people want from him, anyway? Do they want a environment that produces lots of quality data or do they want Facebook to stop collecting data? Perhaps both? But then, how would Facebook make money? Or perhaps even neither? Would the world be a worse place without Facebook? What would we lose? People can always have an uncivil conversation with bots about divisive politics on Twitter. They can stay in touch with friends, family, neighbors and co-workers on any of the numerous messenger apps. Young people are giving up on it, and Germany's new digital minister Dorothee Baer recently  teased it for turning into ""a senior citizens' network."" But what's keeping the older generations on it except inertia? Zuckerberg, who is expected to break his silence soon, probably won't make any radical moves. But what if he did? Sometimes, dreams help clarify reality. I have this picture of him in my mind, framed as a self-launching video. Quietly and choking up a little as he speaks, the Facebook CEO makes an announcement. ""We've come so far from that dorm room at Harvard,"" he says. ""Perhaps too far. I'm sad to announce that today, we're closing the main Facebook app and web site: It's clear that it's been abused by anyone and everyone, including ourselves, and you folks no longer want it. We'll still help connect the world though Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp. We promise they won't turn into another Facebook."" Would there be many people -- except perhaps the remaining Facebook shareholders -- who wouldn't heave a sigh of relief?  I know I would. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Leonid Bershidsky is a Bloomberg View columnist. He was the founding editor of the Russian business daily Vedomosti and founded the opinion website Slon.ru.   For more columns from Bloomberg View, visit http://www.bloomberg.com/view. ©2018 Bloomberg L.P. BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder  Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more View Opinions From Business And Policy Experts On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w954]   Facebook’s PR Crisis Is A Mess Of Its Own Making - Bloomberg Quint    top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings     Article details     Kara Alaimo  March 22 2018, 6:17PM  March 21 2018, 5:52PM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line (Bloomberg View) -- Facebook is dealing with one of the biggest crises in its history this week, after it admitted on Friday that it has known since 2015 that Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm that worked on Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, improperly accessed data on 50 million of its users . On Monday, the company’s stock experienced its largest decline in four years ; the social media giant lost a staggering $37 billion in market value in one day. The incident intensified on Tuesday, with Democratic and Republican senators calling on Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify before Congress, and Bloomberg News reporting that the Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether the company breached a consent decree. The European Union is also investigating . The founder of WhatsApp called on users to delete Facebook. And it’s only Wednesday.   The company’s executives are reportedly worried about how all of this will affect their personal reputations -- and they should be. Much of this damage has been self-inflicted. The poor judgment Facebook exercised in handling this matter is mind-boggling. As anyone with even a small amount of experience managing crises could have told the company, the worst decision an organization can make in such a situation is to stay silent. If Facebook had disclosed what it knew as soon as the problem occurred and then followed up with steps to protect user privacy, it could have resolved the issue without outside interference and the financial and reputational losses it’s now experiencing. Instead, the incident has spiraled out of Facebook’s control. There’s a simple reason why disclosure is the most effective strategy in a crisis: The truth always emerges. In the U.S., even classified government documents are regularly leaked. So a company facing a problem has two choices: to admit what happened immediately and ideally get some points for being transparent, or to try to cover things up and later be blamed for both the initial problem and the subsequent deceit. That’s why any good crisis expert will tell an organization to fess up about everything as soon as possible. It will face an initial round of negative media coverage. But if the company has truly come clean and then works to fix the underlying problem, the media will be left with nothing more to report. It’s the fastest and easiest way to make a problem go away. By contrast, Facebook waited three years to disclose this incident. That’s what has led to so much outrage and so many investigations. If the company had immediately announced the breach, lawmakers and the public would still have had a lot of questions about how it protects user data. However, Facebook would have avoided the charges of secrecy that have now led so many people (including me ) to question its underlying values. One reason Facebook may have decided to withhold the information for so long is that it was trying to figure out how to prevent such episodes from happening again. However, companies don’t need to resolve a problem fully before they disclose it. Helio Fred Garcia, president of the Logos Consulting Group and author of “The Agony of Decision: Mental Readiness and Leadership in a Crisis,” says that a company determining how to address a crisis should ask itself this question: “What would reasonable people appropriately expect a responsible organization or leader to do when facing this kind of situation?” Reasonable people wouldn’t expect a company that just learned that its data has been improperly shared to have developed a full plan within minutes to prevent such a situation from recurring. They would, however, expect the company to be transparent, express remorse, pledge to take action to prevent the problem from happening again, and follow up with an announcement about what it was doing to solve the underlying issue. If Facebook had done this, it wouldn’t be dealing with the mess it’s in today. What’s more, such a strategy would likely have allowed the company to determine how to solve the problem itself. If Facebook had quickly implemented measures to better protect the privacy of its users, it would have been unnecessary for lawmakers to step in and mandate them. Self-designed solutions would almost certainly have been more palatable to the company than the kinds of changes now likely to be imposed from the outside.      That strategy is still the company’s best bet now -- even though it will continue to suffer massive reputational damage for its delay. The fact that Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg  have stayed silent until now suggests, astonishingly, that they still haven’t learned this rudimentary lesson. Zuckerberg will reportedly speak over the next 24 hours. According to Axios , the delay has been because “he wanted to say something meaningful rather than just rushing out.” But of course, it’s been deeply damaging for him to let others speculate about his thoughts for the past five days, rather than making a statement himself about this problem he has apparently known about for three years. It’s no surprise that Facebook stock plummeted. Leslie Gaines-Ross, author of “Corporate Reputation: 12 Steps to Safeguarding and Recovering Reputation,” writes that 63 percent of a company’s market value is attributable to its public image. If Facebook had following basic, well-established principles of crisis communications, it wouldn’t now be dealing with a full-fledged catastrophe that is mostly of its own making. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Kara Alaimo is an assistant professor of public relations at Hofstra University and author of “Pitch, Tweet, or Engage on the Street: How to Practice Global Public Relations and Strategic Communication.” She previously served in the Obama administration.   For more columns from Bloomberg View, visit http://www.bloomberg.com/view. ©2018 Bloomberg L.P. BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder  Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more View Opinions From Business And Policy Experts On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w955] HTML Facebook data scandal | Mark Zuckerberg: Facebook committed to ensuring integrity of elections in India Server: 122 [if lte IE 8]>  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w956] 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w957] Latest News: Zuckerberg on FB Data Breach; ‘Modicare’ Gets Cabinet Nod    DNS prefetch AMP Support  Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) /52868882/LB_Top   /52868882/LB_Top mobile  TheQuint BloombergQuint Hindi Quint Neon Fit TheQuint Big Story Hot News Videos Man Dies After CRPF Vehicle Crushes Him During Srinagar Protest ‘Veere Di Wedding’: Dial M for Marriage  Super Fan Sudhir Gautam Hosted by MS Dhoni For Lunch Full List of Players Sold at Pro Kabaddi League Auction This Lady Just Brutally Took Down ‘Veere Di Wedding’ My Misadventures With a Whisky-Drinking Sanghi in Gujarat Who is the Mysterious Dancing Uncle Going Viral on Social Media? Women Talk Sex like Never Before in ‘Veere Di Wedding’ Latest News: Man Dies After Being Hit By CRPF Vehicle in Srinagar Close hamburger-icon News My Report Neon Entertainment Voices Sports Fit Lifestyle News Videos Videos Tech and Auto Explainers Photos Gender Opinion The Quint Lab Infographics Graphic Novels Switch To Hindi Subscribe to Newsletter Download Apps Advertise With Us Write For Us react-text: 139 /react-text react-text: 142 /react-text react-text: 144 /react-text react-text: 146 /react-text react-text: 147 /react-text Big Story Hot News Videos Short DoQs Documentaries Q Rant Cab Mein Charcha Pammy Kaur's Love Letter Q Dekhein Breaking Views 360 VR News Videos Sections News My Report Neon Entertainment Voices Sports Fit Lifestyle News Videos @TheQuint About Us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Bloomberg Quint Quintype Quint Hindi /52868882/Q_OutOfPage_01  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w958] HTML Is Big Data a threat to free democratic choice? - Livemint  Home Companies Money Industry Technology Politics Opinion Lounge More... Science Sports Multimedia Education Consumer Specials epaper  × Home Companies Money Industry Technology Politics Money Opinion Lounge Multimedia Science Education Sports Consumer Specials × Home » Opinion Is Big Data a threat to free democratic choice? The Cambridge Analytica controversy raises several uncomfortable questions Thu, Mar 22 2018. 08 42 AM IST Whether privacy concerns will compel a change in digital business models will depend in the end on the market and consumer choice. Illustration: Jayachandran/MInt The 1928 US presidential elections were a lively affair. Democratic Party nominee Alfred Smith may well have wished they were less so. Backers of Republican nominee Herbert Hoover accused Smith, among other smears, of indulging in “card-playing, cocktail drinking, poodle dogs, divorces, novels, stuffy rooms, evolution . . . nude art, prize-fighting, actors, greyhound racing and modernism”. It was apparently an effective if eccentric bit of calumny. Hoover went on to win. It is a useful oddity to bear in mind when considering the ongoing Cambridge Analytica scandal. Electoral dirty tricks are a regrettably time-honoured tradition. That Donald Trump’s presidential campaign may have used underhand means to target voters is thus not the central issue. Nor is it that Facebook betrayed user trust, although it certainly had its share of lapses. The heart of the matter is the nature of the bargain users have made with tech companies like Facebook and Google. When The Guardian reported the story last week, it presented Cambridge Analytica’s alleged use of data from some 50 million Facebook users to target US voters as a data breach. Facebook is contesting that it was a breach. But this is about more than semantics. A breach would imply a failure in Facebook’s security, and thus liability on its part. Facebook is thus trying to push a different narrative: that academic Aleksandr Kogan, who collected the data via his app, thisisyourdigitallife, did so according to Facebook guidelines. When he then passed on that data to Cambridge Analytica, however, he was in contravention of the guidelines and Facebook took appropriate action. Facebook is right in claiming that the data was collected as per its guidelines but wrong in claiming due diligence thereafter. The Guardian revealed the Cambridge Analytica angle in 2015. Facebook’s lawyers moved swiftly, demanding that Kogan and Analytica delete the user data. But the paperwork took two years to complete. Facebook neglected any auditing to confirm that the data had actually been deleted. It also failed to publicly reveal the leak, possibly violating a 2011 agreement about making it clear how user data was used. These are all lapses for which Facebook should be held to account. Indeed, with the US Federal Trade Commission gearing up to hold its feet to the fire, and the threat of a hefty fine if it is found to have violated the 2011 agreement, Facebook is starting to feel the heat. It has also earned negative publicity and taken a hit to its market value. But the fact that such vast amounts of data were so easily collected in the first place—and without breaking the rules —points to the larger issues to do with the economics of the internet. Since its inception in 2004, Facebook, more than any other company, has propagated the norm of digital businesses fuelled by private data that users sign over willingly in exchange for notionally free services. Certainly, privacy advocates have helped put some guardrails in place. For instance, in 2015, Facebook altered the rules that allowed apps like Kogan’s to collect data not just on individuals who signed in but also of people on their friends’ lists. However, the core model has remained unchanged. Can regulatory action change this? To an extent, yes. Data localization conditions can ensure that user data collected within a country must be kept within it. Regulations can also compel businesses to adopt privacy by design principles that foreground user choice and consent. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which takes effect from 25 May this year, has adopted this approach. Perhaps the most stringent data protection regime globally, it will be a litmus test for companies’ ability and willingness to comply. US lawmakers, protective of Silicon Valley champions until not too long ago, are also starting to lose patience. Regulations cannot, however, alter the fundamental economic value of user data or the business models they fuel. Besides, the regulatory approach often hinges on user consent as the GDPR does—and the growth of social media companies over the past decade is fair evidence that consent is not hard to obtain, even with the knowledge of private data being signed over. This has political implications as well. Cambridge Analytica and other such firms have boasted of the merits of psychographic targeting based on user data. This is currently a dubious proposition with little proof to back it up. But that might change as algorithms grow more sophisticated. The current controversy may seem far removed from India, but political parties here are also embracing Big Data analytics to understand voter behaviour—and perhaps alter it. Whether privacy concerns will compel a change in digital business models will depend in the end on the market and consumer choice. If users prioritize privacy enough to opt for currently nascent technologies such as blockchain-based self-sovereign identity systems, Facebook and its ilk’s heyday will be a blip in the arc of the digital economy. If not, scandals such as Cambridge Analytica will remain mere speed bumps. Should the scraping of user data from social media be regulated? Tell us at views@livemint.com Topics: Facebook Facebook data breach Cambridge Analytica Donald Trump 2016 US elections More From Opinion » Angela Merkel’s comeuppance is Europe’s misfortune The agricultural core of the macroeconomic problem today Achieving universal health coverage in India Boosting shareholder activism in Corporate India The spies who turned into seers Editor's Picks » Latest News » Sanju ‘giri’ Petrol, diesel prices cut by 9 paise per litre PM Modi threads path between rising China, uncertain US Idea to seek nod for fundraise, new name Ikea may have a price war in store for India Mark to Market » Will ICICI Bank investors now find closure in Chanda Kochhar controversy? When auditors grow a spine, investor health should get a boost Why it became impossible to get bids for Air India India Q4 GDP data: Non-farm private sector growth slows Petrochemical, gas trading businesses a drag on GAIL’s Q4 results Home Companies Opinion Industry Politics Consumer Lounge Multimedia Money Science Education Sports Specials Technology Contact Us About Us Advertising Mint Apps Sitemap DesiMartini Shine Hindustantimes Syndication Brand Stories Livehindustan Subscribe Board Results Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mint Code RSS Copyright © 2018 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w959] [if lte IE 6]>< class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if (IE 7)&(!IEMobile) < class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""lt-ie9"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] Cambridge Analytica global data scam reaches doors of Congress - Mail Today News      NEWSROOM SCRIPT END NEWSROOM SCRIPT <link href='https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto+Slab' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'> <link href='https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:300,400,500,700' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'> [if IEMobile endif] [if lt IE 9  endif] Default comscore Comscore function which is called on ajax Quora Pixel Code (JS Helper) End of Quora Pixel Code Jump to navigation News LIVE TV APP Magazine Login Home Videos India Movies Technology Lifestyle Sports FIFA World Cup 2018 FYI Education Television World Auto Photo Mail Today Cricket Travel Business  advertisement Cambridge Analytica global data scam reaches doors of Congress  Cambridge Analytica global data scam reaches doors of Congress Mail Today Bureau New Delhi March 22, 2018 UPDATED 07:26 IST Follow   Email Author Mail Today Bureau New Delhi March 22, 2018 UPDATED 07:26 IST HIGHLIGHTS Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of serious charges of illegally mining personal data. Congress, BJP traded charges over using their services. Congress never engaged or hired Cambridge Analytica: Randeep Surjewala Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala HIGHLIGHTS Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of serious charges of illegally mining personal data. Congress, BJP traded charges over using their services. Congress never engaged or hired Cambridge Analytica: Randeep Surjewala As the Congress and BJP up their social media strategy ahead of the 2019 parliamentary polls, the parties on Wednesday traded charges over using the services of data consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica that is at the centre of serious charges of illegally mining personal data from Facebook across countries. The BJP alleged that the Congress had roped in CA to bump up its new party chief Rahul Gandhi's social media profile and run its 2019 poll campaign. Union minister for information technology and law Ravi Shankar Prasad in a press conference on Wednesday said, ""My question to the Congress party is to win elections, will the Congress depend on data theft and manipulation? What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in social media profile of Rahul Gandhi?"" The consultancy that did digital work for Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign has been caught in a media firestorm after undercover sting operations caught senior executives boasting about fake news promotions, psychological manipulation and entrapment techniques. Citing reports, Prasad alleged that the Congress had hired the services of the agency to run its 2019 poll campaign and asked the party to explain how much data it had traded with Cambridge Analytica during the recent Gujarat and Northeast assembly elections as well as the upcoming polls in Karnataka. In the backdrop of probes by British lawmakers and the US privacy watchdog Federal Trade Commission, Prasad warned Facebook of ""stringent action"" if it is found guilty of breaching user confidentiality. ""Let me make it very, very clear, we fully support freedom of press, speech and expression we fully support free exchange of ideas on social media. But any attempt, covert or overt, by social media, including Facebook, of trying to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be appreciated nor be tolerated. If need be, stringent action will be taken,"" Prasad said. The minister added that 20 crore Indians use Facebook, making it the company's largest market outside the US. Responding to Prasad's allegations, Congress communications in-charge Randeep Surjewala said, ""The BJP's factory of fake news has produced one more fake product today. It appears that fake press conferences, fake agenda and fake spins and fake statements have become the everyday character of BJP and its 'lawless' minister of law Ravi Shankar Prasad. The services of this company (CA) have never been hired by Congress party or Rahul Gandhi."" Making counter-allegations on the BJP, Surjewala said the party had hired the services of CA during the Bihar assembly polls and also for its Mission 272 plus campaign in 2014. ""The company's website claims that it ran a research and communication campaign and was contacted to undertake an in-depth electorate analysis for the Bihar assembly elections in 2010. Cambridge Analytica and another Indian firm Ovelina Business Intelligence (OBI), run by the son of a prominent NDA leader from Bihar, complemented each other's businesses,"" Surjewala alleged. ""The company claims that one of their achievements include managing four successful election campaigns for the ruling BJP and OBI has mentioned having achieved the target of 272 plus, providing constituency-wise database to BJP candidates and extending support to it in national elections and state elections of Haryana, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Delhi. It is not me who is saying so, it is Cambridge Analytica which is saying so. And they have partners in India whose businesses complement each other."" Do You Like This Story? Tags : Follow Follow Follow  advertisement Trump wants US military to secure border until wall is built Amazon keen to buy Flipkart, but Flipkart wants to sell itself to Walmart: Report Parveen Babi and Mahesh Bhatt's heartbreaking love story Fake news order: What Smriti Irani did not learn from Rajiv Gandhi, Vasundhara Raje 4 bypoll losses in a row for Yogi a shock to BJP's Mission 2019? 70 per cent Ganga will be cleaned before March 2019: Nitin Gadkari at Panchayat Aaj Tak Existential fear has united Opposition: Nitin Gadkari at Panchayat Aaj Tak Who is to be blamed for inciting violence in Tuticorin? HD Kumaraswamy takes oath as Karnataka Chief Minister My Take: When 'ganna' meets 'ganit', then who needs Jinnah? Row over move to open cantonment roads for civilians: Ending colonial legacy or security risk? Didn't count the hours I studied, just loved my subjects: CBSE topper Meghna Shrivastava advertisement  INDIATODAY.IN advertisement Publications: Business Today Cosmopolitan India Today - Hindi India Today Mail Today Money Today Reader's Digest Time Television: Aaj Tak Delhi Aaj Tak India Today TV Tez Radio: Ishq FM Education: India Today Education Vasant Valley Events: Agenda Aajtak India Today Conclave Printing: Thomson Press Welfare Care Today Music: Music Today Syndications: IndiaContent Distribution: Rate Card Das Application Contact persons for DAS phase III Useful Links : Partners Press Release Sitemap News Copyright © 2018 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today  [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w960] HTML Change settings on your social media accounts to delink third party apps - Livemint  Home Companies Money Industry Technology Politics Opinion Lounge More... Science Sports Multimedia Education Consumer Specials epaper  × Home Companies Money Industry Technology Politics Money Opinion Lounge Multimedia Science Education Sports Consumer Specials × Home » Technology Change settings on your social media accounts to delink third party apps Logging into third party apps with social media accounts is convenient but now we know that there is a real risk of the data being misused by the app developer Thu, Mar 22 2018. 06 44 AM IST Photo: Reuters With data on Facebook and other social media sites vulnerable to third-party access without user consent, users are now left with the responsibility to make sure their profiles are not sharing too much info with other apps they may have signed in on. A look at what a user can do to protect themselves Logging into third party apps with social media accounts is convenient but now we know that there is a real risk of the data being misused by the app developer. Facebook has allowed misuse of 50 million user profiles by a UK based voter profiling company Cambridge Analytica with alleged links to US President Donald Trump’s 2016 election campaign. According to Facebook, the data was legally accumulated by a psychology professor Aleksandr Kogan from University of Cambridge, UK through a personality prediction research app called This is your digital life . Users handed over their profile data along with some data about their friends without knowing how the information was going to be used by the app developer. Facebook claims Kogan’s actions were in violation of their policies and when it learned of the violation in 2015, it removed the app from Facebook. “The cliché thrives that humans are the weakest link in cybersecurity, and probably the primary reason for most of the data breach incidents in recent years. In many cases that holds true since we assume platforms will do the right thing which may not be the case. Today privacy has become a precursor to security. Consumers need to act accordingly and sparingly grant permissions,” says Abhay Edlabadkar, CEO & founder, Redmorph, a US based privacy and security company. Signing up in a third party app using Facebook account or any other social media account, provides the app developer access to users’ name, age, profile picture, home town, interests and the entire friend list. The App developers can access the data even after the app is removed from a user’s smartphone. With data on Facebook and other social media sites vulnerable to third-party access without user consent, users are now left with the responsibility to make sure their profiles are not sharing too much info with other apps they may have signed in on. “Users need to take control over their online information. The convenience of not having to remember a password is what makes people use social media logins but they forget that their privacy can be comprised,” says Ritesh Chopra, country manager, consumer business unit, Symantec, an online security company. He recommends checking privacy setting on all social media accounts. Most of the social networks which allow users to login with their social media account such as Facebook, Google Plus and Twitter provide users the option to de-link third party apps and games they do not trust from their social media accounts. For Facebook, users can revoke this access for all thrid party apps by turning off Facebook integration in Apps, Plugins and Websites section. If the concerns are limited to a particular app only user can remove the app from the Apps’ section in Account Settings. To ensure the data already gathered by developer is not misused in future, users can contact the developer from the same page and ask them to delete the data. If the app developer doesn’t comply, users can report it to Facebook via the Report App section. To de-link apps in Google Plus, users need to go to the Apps with Google+ Sign in section in Settings. Here they can see the list of all the apps which use Google Plus to login along with the Disconnect button to end the data sharing. Illustration by Abhijit Ahaskar Unlike Facebook and Google Plus, Twitter doesn’t provide the option to de-link third party apps on Twitter mobile app. To access the feature users will have to go to the Apps section in the Settings & Privacy page on Twitter website. Here users can see the amount of access and app has and can put an end to it by tapping on the Revoke Access button. Illustration by Abhijit Ahaskar “Today, users should own their online presence by understanding the implications of loosely granting access to personal identifiable information. Since platforms update almost every day, we should revisit our privacy and third party access policy more frequently,” says Venkat Krishnapur, vice president of engineering and managing director at McAfee, online security company. Topics: Facebook Facebook data breach Facebook user data third party apps social media More From Technology » Angry shareholders challenge Facebook over ‘corporate dictatorship’ Decoding the Indian Gamer Will a protest turn violent?Ask Twitter Now, 3D-printed corneas provide hope for those with eye ailments This premium laptop means business Editor's Picks » Latest News » Sanju ‘giri’ Petrol, diesel prices cut by 9 paise per litre PM Modi threads path between rising China, uncertain US Idea to seek nod for fundraise, new name Ikea may have a price war in store for India Mark to Market » Will ICICI Bank investors now find closure in Chanda Kochhar controversy? When auditors grow a spine, investor health should get a boost Why it became impossible to get bids for Air India India Q4 GDP data: Non-farm private sector growth slows Petrochemical, gas trading businesses a drag on GAIL’s Q4 results  Home Companies Opinion Industry Politics Consumer Lounge Multimedia Money Science Education Sports Specials Technology Contact Us About Us Advertising Mint Apps Sitemap DesiMartini Shine Hindustantimes Syndication Brand Stories Livehindustan Subscribe Board Results Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mint Code RSS Copyright © 2018 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w961]   Cambridge Analytica's Brazil Partner Suspends Deal Amid Scandal - Bloomberg Quint    top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings    Article details  David Biller  March 22 2018, 11:49PM  March 21 2018, 10:04PM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line (Bloomberg) -- Ponte Estrategia, the Brazilian partner of data research firm Cambridge Analytica, has asked to suspend its agreement with the London-based company less than seven months before the South American nation goes to the polls. Andre Torretta, the head of the Brazilian firm, emailed Cambridge Analytica with the request after reports that data from 50 million Facebook users were allegedly harvested without permission by the company. Torretta said by phone he hasn’t heard back yet. “Were it some other circumstance, they would have called, given me an explanation,” Torretta said. “Their lack of response is not pleasing.” Latin America’s largest democracy will vote for a new president in October at a moment in which its citizens are deeply divided. Brazil’s polarization has some similarities with that of the U.S during the 2016 campaign of President Donald Trump, who enlisted Cambridge Analytica’s services to target potential voters. In a secretly-recorded video released on Monday, the company’s executives told an undercover reporter they were ""going to Brazil"" as they discussed the questionable tactics they used to influence elections. Its CEO, Alexander Nix, has since been suspended by the company pending an internal investigation. Understanding the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica Story: QuickTake A Cambridge Analytica spokesperson didn’t immediately return a request for comment. The company told Bloomberg last November its agreement with Ponte wasn’t exclusive, but that it wasn’t working with any other company in Brazil. The company said in a March 17 statement it originally obtained the Facebook information from a third-party contractor without knowing how it had been obtained, then deleted it without using it as part of the services it provided to Trump’s campaign. Meanwhile in Brazil, Ponte doesn’t expect the scandal to hold back its progress, Torretta said. It has closed deals with three gubernatorial hopefuls already, and remains in talks with potential presidential candidates. “For me it won’t change anything, in spite of all this confusion,” Torretta said.   ©2018 Bloomberg L.P. BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder  Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Follow All The Political News In India On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w962]   Facebook’s Zuckerberg Outlines Steps To Protect User Data   - Bloomberg Quint    top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings     Article details  Sarah Frier  March 23 2018, 6:27PM  March 21 2018, 7:54PM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line  BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder There cannot be any whitespace on the next line (Bloomberg) -- Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg outlined some concrete steps the social network will take to protect user data, his first public response to the crisis over Cambridge Analytica’s access to information from the platform. He said the company will do three things: Investigate all large apps that were allowed to get data not just on their own users, but on those users’ friends, before Facebook changed its policies in 2014, and ban any developers that don’t agree to an audit. The company will tell affected users if they find problems. Remove developer access to data if someone hasn’t used that app in 3 months, and reduce the type of information the app gets when users sign in. Work to make sure people understand who has access to their data, showing everyone a tool at the top of the News Feed in the next month, and making it easy to revoke permissions. Zuckerberg laid out the timeline of events leading up to the current predicament, explaining what Facebook knew and when about Cambridge Analytica’s access to the data of 50 million users. The co-founder also said Facebook still hasn’t independently confirmed reports from news organizations over the weekend that kicked off the controversy. “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” Zuckerberg said. “I’ve been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn’t happen again.” Zuckerberg said that the most important solution to the problem -- preventing developers from getting access to information on their user’s friends -- was resolved in 2014. He plans to address the public via an appearance on CNN on Wednesday evening, in a move intended to reach a broad audience of people, not just on Facebook. In the past, he has mostly addressed the company’s problems via videos or posts on his profile page. “We are glad to hear Zuckerberg finally address this issue sooner rather than later as this uncertainty has been a major overhang on Facebook shares,” Daniel Ives, the head of technology research at GBH, wrote in a note to investors following the executive posts. “While this Cambridge situation will remain a dark cloud over the Facebook name in the near term, breaking his silence and the actions outlined in his blog post should help users, advertisers, and investors feel more comfortable that Facebook and Zuckerberg are starting to get their arms around this issue.” Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg also weighed in on the social network’s handling of the Cambridge Analytica revelations, arguably striking a more penitent tone than Zuckerberg. “I deeply regret that we didn’t do enough to deal with it,” Sandberg wrote. She reiterated steps outlined by Zuckerberg and referred readers to his post.   ©2018 Bloomberg L.P.  Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Stay Updated With Tech News On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w963] Major breach of trust, I'm sorry this happened: Facebook's Zuckerberg | cambridge analytica | Facebook CEO | Mark Zuckerberg | data theft | cambridge analytica india | us presidential election | News Feed | the week Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript)    "														MAGAZINE 														 																The Week	 															 																Health	 															 																Wallet	 															 														Contact 													 											Login 										 Logout 											Message Us 										 												Subscribe 											" input class=""sb-search-submit"" type=""submit"" value=""""> span class=""voice-search fa fa-microphone"" aria-hidden=""true"">    "										HOME 									 										INDIA 									 										WORLD 									 										BUSINESS 									 										SPORTS 									 										SCI/TECH 									 										LEISURE 									 										ENTERTAINMENT 									 										REVIEWS 									 										COLUMNS 									 										VIDEOS 									 										GALLERY 									"                 CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA Major breach of trust, I'm sorry this happened: Facebook's Zuckerberg Facebook made mistakes, says Zuckerberg; vows to 'fix'   In the midst of revelations of a major data breach, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg today admitted that his company made mistakes on user data secrecy and vowed to take steps to prevent the misuse or breach of personal data of users by developers or business partners. ""It's a major breach of trust, I'm sorry this happened,"" said Zuckerberg in a media interview. Zuckerberg, 33, through a lengthy Facebook post, broke his silence over the alleged privacy scandal that hit the social media giant. ""I started Facebook, and at the end of the day, I'm responsible for what happens on our platform. I'm serious about doing what it takes to protect our community,"" Zuckerberg said. Reports alleged that personal data from as many as 50 million people might have been used improperly in Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign by Cambridge Analytica, a UK-based political research firm. Zuckerberg said Facebook has a ""responsibility"" to protect its users' data and if it fails, ""we don't deserve to serve you."" He acknowledged that there is more the company needs to do. ""...But we also made mistakes, there's more to do, and we need to step up and do it,"" he said. Over the past several days, Facebook has been facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission and calls for legislative testimonies in the US and Europe. India's IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has warned social media companies such as Facebook of stringent actions if there was any attempt to influence the electoral process of any country. Amid a global outrage against Facebook, the Silicon Valley-based company, which currently has 2 billion monthly active users, has suffered a loss of $50 billion in market value. In a damage control mode, Zuckerberg announced a slew of measures aimed to ""secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward"". For this, the Facebook founder said, his company will take three steps to prevent the data misuse. ""We will investigate all apps that had access to large amounts of information before we changed our platform to dramatically reduce data access in 2014, and we will conduct a full audit of any app with suspicious activity,"" he said. ""We will ban any developer from our platform that does not agree to a thorough audit. And if we find developers that misused personally identifiable information, we will ban them and tell everyone affected by those apps,"" he added. Zuckerberg said that the second step is to restrict developers' data access even further to prevent other kinds of abuse. He cited an example for this: ""It (Facebook) will remove developers' access to one's data if the app hasn't been used by the person in three months."" ""We will reduce the data you give an app when you sign in—to only your name, profile photo, and email address. We'll require developers to not only get approval but also sign a contract in order to ask anyone for access to their posts or other private data. And we'll have more changes to share in the next few days,"" Zuckerberg said. In the last of the three steps, he said in the next month Facebook will show everyone a tool at the top of their News Feed with the apps they have used and an easy way to revoke those apps' permissions to their data. Also read Trump pardons conservative commentator Dinesh D’Souza YouTube, Snapchat more popular than Facebook among US teens North Korean leader Kim sends letter to Trump The Kingdom and the States – a complicated relationship ""We already have a tool to do this in your privacy settings, and now we will put this tool at the top of your News Feed to make sure everyone sees it, Zuckerberg said. Zuckerberg said that his company had already taken a series of steps in 2014. Giving a timeline of the events, Zuckerberg said in 2013, a Cambridge University researcher named Aleksandr Kogan created a personality quiz app. It was installed by around 300,000 people who shared their data as well as some of their friends' data. Given the way Facebook platform worked at the time, this meant Kogan was able to access tens of millions of their friends' data, he said. Zuckerberg said in order to prevent the ""abusive apps"", a series of measures were taken in 2014 to dramatically limit the data apps could access. In 2015, Facebook learned from journalists at The Guardian that Kogan had shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. It is against Facebook's policies for developers to share data without people's consent, he said, adding that he immediately banned Kogan's app from Facebook, and demanded that Kogan and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that they had deleted all improperly acquired data. They provided these certifications. Zuckerberg cited some media reports that suggested Cambridge may not have deleted the data as they had certified. This, according to him, was not only a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge and Facebook but also between his company and its users. ""But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it. We need to fix that,"" he said. ""In this case, we already took the most important steps a few years ago in 2014 to prevent bad actors from accessing people's information in this way. But there's more we need to do,"" Zuckerberg said.    TAGS Mark Zuckerberg Donald Trump US Presidential Election Cambridge Analytica data breach  "	 MOST READ 	"   Tough love    Kerala: 10-year-old molested in cinema hall, mother booked under POSCO    Karnataka elections: Divya Spandana, Prakash Raj face social media wrath for not voting    Fahadh Faasil: Where stardom dies, an actor is born    Now, manage cancer with wearable technology    Eminent physicist E.C.G. Sudarshan dies in Texas    Kerala DHSE Plus Two results 2018 to be declared today on dhsekerala.gov.in; how to check your scores    NET concern     DOWNLOAD The Week Mobile App       Terms & Conditions Privacy & Statement Copyright © 2018 All rights reserved  "																																																																																																																																																																																								
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w964] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""http://www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd""  What changed for the market while you were sleeping? 15 things you should know - Moneycontrol.com [if lte IE 9]>   You are using an outdated browser. Please to improve your experience and security. "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w965]   Driverless Cars, Facebook and Control: How Fear Breeds Overreaction - Bloomberg Quint    top Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Bloomberg the Company & Its Products The Quint  Bloomberg Bloomberg | Quint is a multiplatform, Indian business and financial news company. We combine Bloomberg’s global leadership in business and financial news and data, with Quintillion Media’s deep expertise in the Indian market and digital news delivery, to provide high quality business news, insights and trends for India’s sophisticated audiences. Company Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts Financial Products Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indices Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Enterprise Products Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault Bloomberg PolarLake Media Bloomberg Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Gadfly Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus Customer Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Industry Products Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance Media Services Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Bloomberg Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Download Software Service Center  BloombergQuint  TODO: remove this old navigation menu once new one is live add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Markets Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Business Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Videos Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Opinion Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends add 'has-second-nav' when there is a second nav Traders Carnival Mobile second level menu starts Mobile second level menu ends  Karnataka 2018 Law And Policy Politics GST Earnings      Desktop second level menu starts Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 Desktop second level menu ends  BloombergQuint Markets  Business  Videos  Opinion  Traders Carnival  Karnataka 2018  Law And Policy  Politics Karnataka 2018 Gujarat 2017 GST  Earnings     Article details     Tyler Cowen  March 22 2018, 6:00AM  March 21 2018, 6:00AM   /60988533/BQ_Story_300x600 Editor's Choice     BQ_Story_300x250_001  Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe   /60988533/BQ_StoryPage_Mob_320x50 There cannot be any whitespace on the next line (Bloomberg View) -- The world has now seen its first death by driverless car, in Tempe, Arizona, as a pedestrian was struck down by an Uber vehicle. This is a big news story, even though about 40,000 Americans die from motor vehicle accidents each year. We’re learning that this technological age, which seemed to start with the pretty innocuous act of emailing, has evolved to play into our more primal fears about feeling out of control. Stories about how individual people die, or nearly die, are captivating. If a child is trapped down a well , the world will watch for days and spend whatever is needed to pull off a rescue. This is because we elevate highly visible deaths over harder-to-see deaths: Notice the news coverage of ISIS beheadings of Western journalists, victims of mass school shootings, and the recent attempted-assassination of a Russian former double agent in the U.K. We should not, however, see our hurried responses as overreacting. Too often the natural human tendency is not to respond decisively to a tragedy at all. If the drama of these deaths mobilizes us, that may be needed to help fix the underlying problem. The rush to respond is more problematic, however, when the visible deaths spring from a new technology. The first American citizen to be assassinated by a mini-drone on U.S. soil will be a big, big story. There is already a viral fictional video about this possibility. We will indeed be mobilized to action, but we may respond by shunning or overregulating drones, even if such action is unlikely to limit terrorist attacks. Part of the problem with drones is that we don’t like feeling out of control, and the newness of the technology gives the story extra legs. We think we can protect our lives against many kinds of risks, perhaps irrationally to some extent, but how do you protect against being assassinated by a small, poison-equipped drone? Even if there are useful steps you can take, they are not obvious to us today. This seems like a scary possibility attached to a dystopian future, even if the number of deaths by drone assassination never approaches that of suicide from handguns. Like drones, driverless cars possess some features of an especially potent scare story. They are a new and exciting technology, and so stories about them get a lot of clicks. We don’t actually know how safe they are, and that uncertainty will spook people above and beyond whatever is the particular level of risk. Most of all, driverless cars by definition involve humans not feeling in direct control. It resembles how a lot of people feel in greater danger when flying than driving a car, even though flying is usually safer. Driverless cars raise a lot of questions about driver control: Should you be allowed to sleep in the backseat? Or must you stay by the wheel ? That focuses our minds and feelings on the issue of control all the more. The authorities have issued a preliminary judgment that the accident in Tempe was the result of an errant pedestrian, and that it had nothing to do with the car in question being driverless. Still, if you think that Americans process information about risk rationally, I would advise you to consider attitudes toward vaccines. Or consider how many people develop diabetes, partially through bad lifestyle decisions, and then they don’t treat the condition properly, even with their lives on the line. As for the accident, the result so far is that Uber has suspended all tests of its autonomous vehicles on American roads. We all know that another driverless car accident next week, no matter what the context, could create a media frenzy and a regulatory backlash, for better or for worse. The recent brouhaha over Facebook and Cambridge Analytica (read here and here ) reflects some similar issues. Could most Americans clearly and correctly articulate exactly what went wrong in this episode? Probably not, but people do know that when it comes to social networks, their personal data and algorithms, they don’t exactly feel in control. The murkiness of the events and legal obligations is in fact part of the problem.   When I see a new story or criticism about the tech world, I no longer ask whether the tech companies poll as being popular ( they do ). I instead wonder whether voters feel in control in a world with North Korean nuclear weapons, an erratic American president and algorithms everywhere. They don’t. Haven’t you wondered why articles about robots putting us all out of work are so popular during a time of full employment? We are about to enter a new meta-narrative for American society, which I call “re-establishing the feeling of control.” Unfortunately, when you pursue the feeling rather than the actual control, you often end up with neither. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Tyler Cowen is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a professor of economics at George Mason University and writes for the blog Marginal Revolution. His books include “The Complacent Class: The Self-Defeating Quest for the American Dream.”   For more columns from Bloomberg View, visit http://www.bloomberg.com/view. ©2018 Bloomberg L.P. BQ_Breakthrough_728x90 placeholder  Story page - whatsapp subscription  to subscribe to WhatsApp updates from BloombergQuint  Start :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Stay Updated With View News On BloombergQuint Story page subscribe newsletter start Bloomberg | Quint The Daily Newsletter Subscribe News & Stock Alerts WhatsApp Subscribe facebook Messenger Subscribe Telegram Subscribe Story page subscribe newsletter end End :: Authoritative section linking & Read more Start :: Also Read : TenReads End :: Also Read : TenReads Start :: ZeoTap integration End :: ZeoTap integration         Bloomberg Quint Business News GST News Market News Tech News Nifty Futures Political News Nifty Option Chain Pursuits Global Economics Charts Budget 2018 News Videos Company About us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sitemap RSS Podcast  © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved © 2018 BloombergQuint. All Rights Reserved © 2018 TheQuint. All Rights Reserved © Powered by Quintype  bottom ZeoTap Integration End ZeoTap Integration add this class 'bq-live-chat__video-wrapper--video-playing' for video playing state BQ Live - Mini player END  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w966] Prasad warns FB of stringent action if it sways electoral process - Oneindia News             हिन्दी తెలుగు മലയാളം தமிழ் ಕನ್ನಡ বাংলা ગુજરાતી  Election News Election Predictor Dream Cabinet Infographics Interviews Cartoons Vision for Karmataka Opinion Polls Voting Q&A;     Sports  Bollywood Hollywood Tamil Telugu Malayalam Kannada Television Photo Gallery  Beauty Cookery Insync Health Home n Garden Pregnancy n Parenting Relationship  Car News Bike News Reviews How-To Photos EMI Calculator Offbeat Latest New Cars  Mobile Tablet Reviews Gadgets  Hotels Flights Articles  News Classroom Personal Finance Mutual Fund Insurance  eBay Amazon MMT Nykaa Jabong Flipkart Swiggy C'trip Bookmyshow Yatra GoDaddy Bigbasket  You can manage your notification subscription by clicking on the icon. To start receiving timely alerts, as shown below click on the Green “lock” icon next to the address bar Click it and Unblock the Notifications Close X Notifications Clear All No Notifications Get extension     Prasad warns FB of stringent action if it sways electoral process Prasad warns FB of stringent action if it sways electoral process India pti-PTI Posted By: PTI  For Quick Alerts Subscribe Now Get the weather forecast for today View Sample For Quick Alerts ALLOW NOTIFICATIONS For Daily Alerts  Related Articles Cambridge Analytica may shut down but investigations against it to continue Zuckerberg unveils plans for Facebook dating service WhatsApp founder Jan Koum to leave Facebook New Delhi, Mar 21: India today warned social media giant Facebook of ""stringent"" action for any attempt to influence polls by allowing data theft and even threatened to summon its CEO Mark Zuckerberg if needed. The warning came as the BJP today launched a scathing attack on the Congress, questioning the party on its relation with Cambridge Analytica, a data mining firm accused of harvesting personal user data from Facebook illegally to influence polls in several countries. Citing media reports of Congress' links to the firm, IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asked whether the opposition party will depend on data manipulation and theft to woo voters. Prasad's charge is that the Congress planned to use the firm's services for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and boost its president Rahul Gandhi's profile. Amid the ongoing probe by US privacy watchdog and British lawmakers over a potential breach of user confidentiality by Facebook, Prasad said the Indian government fully supports freedom of press, speech and expression and is all for free exchange of ideas on social media. However, any attempt by social media sites, including Facebook, to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will not be tolerated, he told reporters in Parliament House complex. ""...let me make it very, very clear, we fully support freedom of press, speech and expression; we fully support free exchange of ideas on social media. But any attempt, covert or overt, by social media, including Facebook, of trying to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be appreciated nor be tolerated,"" Prasad warned. ""If need be, stringent action will be taken,"" he added. When contacted for comments, a Facebook spokesperson told PTI in an e-mailed response that the minister has ""raised several important questions"" but stressed that the company is committed to its policies of protecting users' information. ""We appreciate his attention to this matter and we will continue to engage with the government on this matter. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect peoples' information and will take whatever steps are required that this happens,"" the Facebook spokesperson added. Prasad said that 20 crore Indians are using Facebook, making it the company's largest market outside of the US. The minister also cautioned the social media giant and its CEO Mark Zuckerberg of repercussions under the IT Act in case of any data breach came to light. ""Mr Mark Zuckerberg, you better note the observation of the IT Minister of India. We welcome Facebook in India, but if any data theft of Indians is done through the collusion of Facebook system, it shall not be tolerated. We have got stringent power in the IT Act, we shall use it, including summoning you in India,"" Prasad warned. Asked if the government would initiate a probe on data usage by Facebook, Prasad said India has a regulator in the form of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and in case of any specific complaints, the same would be taken up under a structured investigation. ""We have got very robust mechanism available, we will look into it. But today, this very stern observation I gave that let my warning be heard across the Atlantic far away in California,"" he said. The minister added that India is strengthening its data protection laws and the Justice B N Srikrishna committee, tasked to suggest a robust data protection framework, has already done multiple rounds of consultation. Incidentally, this is not the first standoff between Indian policymakers and Facebook. TRAI, in 2016, had issued regulations on discriminatory pricing over internet access that had led to ban of platforms like Facebook's Free Basics. ""The issue concerns national interest and national security. And the BJP will take it very seriously if by collusive methods the data assets of Indians are pilfered... My caution is with regard to democratic process,"" Prasad said. The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), an independent government body charged with ensuring that companies abide by their own privacy policies, is looking at whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree after media reports alleged that it had handed the data of millions of users to a political consultancy. Reports have also alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data mined from Facebook in the voter research it conducted for US President Donald Trump during the 2016 election campaign. The matter is also being investigated by UK authorities. Prasad today alleged that Congress party had links with Cambridge Analytica. ""My question to Congress party is whether to win elections, Congress will depend on data manipulation and theft of data,"" he said. ""What is the role of Cambridge Analytica in social media profile of Rahul Gandhi?"" Quoting reports, Prasad said Cambridge Analytica is accused of using bribes and sex workers to entrap politicians and stealing data from Facebook. Prasad sought to know from the Congress party as to how much data trade it had with Cambridge Analytica in view of the recent Gujarat and North East elections, and the upcoming elections in Karnataka. PTI  For breaking news & Instant updates throughout the day  mark zuckerberg india ravi shankar prasad bjp   Modi magic not waning, BJP will emerge stronger: Javadekar Karnataka Cabinet: Full list of JD(S) portfolios Interview with Kremlin Watch Program: ‘It doesn’t seem Donald Trump has a Russia policy’ Featured Posts         Oneindia in Other Languages বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు Explore Oneindia   Follow Oneindia  Daily Updates   About Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Newsletters | Apps | RSS | Advertise with Us | Work for Us | Contact Us | Feedback | Sitemap | Cookie Policy © One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. All Rights Reserved. The ""ONEINDIA"" word mark and logo are owned by One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd.  For Breaking News from Oneindia Get instant news updates throughout the day. Not Now Enable  X        We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites and ad networks. Such third party cookies may track your use on Oneindia sites for better rendering. Our partners use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on Oneindia website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Learn more Change Settings Continue "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w967] Facebook: India will put Facebook in the dock if needed: Ravi Shankar Prasad could not get data /interlingual.cms?msid=63403156&type;=article&pagename;=articleshowpotime:56 Just to check: 13.106 Never miss a great news story! Get instant notifications from Economic Times Allow Not now ET APPS ET Android App ET iPhone App ET iPad App ET Wealth Android App ET Blackberry App ET Markets Android App ET Markets iPhone App ET Money Android App ENGLISH हिन्दी ગુજરાતી E-PAPER ET PRIME FOLLOW US FACEBOOK TWITTER YOUTUBE LINKEDIN GOOGLE PLUS RSS Politics and Nation In complete reversal, Donald Trump revives summit with North Korean leader /latestnewsnav.cms?msid=1715249553potime:10 Home Markets News Industry RISE Politics Wealth MF Tech Jobs Opinion Blogs NRI Magazines Slideshows ET NOW ET Speed ET Portfolio News Company Corporate Trends Deals Industry Economy Agriculture Finance Foreign Trade Indicators Infrastructure Policy Politics and Nation Brandwire Banking/Finance Consumer Products Media/Entertainment NGOs & CSR Services Technology Transportation Misc. Defence Analysis & Geo-Strategy Industry International Policy & Govt Mobility & Weapons Internal Security People Equipment & Ordnance International Business World News India Unlimited Swachh Bharat Make in India Smart Cities 24X7 Power Model Villages Financial Inclusion Tax Reforms Digital Governance Visit India CSR ET 2Good 4Good CSR Compendium CSR Practitioner Series News Policy Analysis & Trends Initiatives More Sports Science Environment Clean Air Initiative Global Warming The Good Earth Developmental Issues Flora & Fauna Pollution Wild & Wacky Earth Summit ET TV Latest News Most Read Most Shared Most Commented ET Online Exclusive › › › could not get data /breadcrumb_static.cms?gidurl=yes&donotshowurl;=1&template;_name=articleshow&language;=&msid;=63403156potime:94 04:05 PM | 01 Jun market stats SENSEX NIFTY 50 GOLD (MCX) (Rs/10g.) USD/INR Unleash the power of SIP - Invest in Mutual funds Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 Fund Direct-Growth Class: Equity Category: Multi Cap NAV ₹27.72 Returns 1M "					 6M 					 1Y 					 3Y 					 Invest Now Portfolio Select Portfolio and Asset Combination for Display on Market Band Select Portfolio Select Asset Class Stocks MF ETF Show More CREATE PORTFOLIO ADD INVESTMENT  	Download ET MARKETS APP  Get ET Markets in your own language DOWNLOAD THE APP NOW +91 CHOOSE LANGUAGE ENG ENG - English HIN - हिन्दी GUJ - ગુજરાતી MAR - मराठी BEN - বাংলা KAN - ಕನ್ನಡ ORI - ଓଡିଆ TEL - తెలుగు TAM - தமிழ் ET NOW RADIO ET NOW TIMES NOW /market_top_band.cmspotime:11 /caller_native_content.cms?urlEncodeIDs=210766~63403156~0&removens;=1&url;=https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/ravi-shankar-prasad-warns-fb-of-stringent-action-threatens-to-summon-mark-zuckerberg/articleshow/63403156.cmspotime:69 Digg Google Bookmarks StumbleUpon Reddit Newsvine Live Bookmarks Technorati Yahoo Bookmarks Blogmarks Del.icio.us ApnaCircle Google Plus Pinterest India will put Facebook in the dock if needed: Ravi Shankar Prasad By 									" , ET Bureau Updated: Mar 22, 2018, 07.05 AM IST Comments "			" Prasad's charge is that the Congress planned to use the firm's services for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and boost its president Rahul Gandhi's profile. The government is ready to launch an enquiry to see if Facebook had any role to play in unfairly influencing elections in the country, union minister for electronics and IT, Ravi Shankar Prasad told ET in an interview on Wednesday, and if required will summon Mark Zuckerberg , founder of the American social networking company, for an explanation. The minister’s remarks come in the wake of allegations that British data firm Cambridge Analytica accessed personal information of nearly 50 million Facebook users, without explicit consent. This data was allegedly used to influence polls across the world including the Presidential election in the US in 2016. Earlier at a press conference, Prasad, who is a senior leader of the ruling NDA, accused the Congress party of having links with Cambridge Analytica. He cited reports which suggest that the Congress party may be in discussions with the firm for a partnership ahead of the 2019 general elections. In turn, the Congress levelled counter charges on the BJP , saying Cambridge Analytica and its local affiliate claim that they played a role in the JDU winning the 2010 Bihar polls. Cambridge Analytica’s local affiliate in India — Ovleno Business Intelligence (OBI) —has claimed to have influenced elections in the country according to its website, which was suddenly shut on Wednesday evening. “Account has been suspended” reads a message on the website. OBI is run by Amrish Tyagi, son of JDU leader KC Tyagi. Cambridge Analytica lists the work it did in the 2010 Bihar elections as a case study on its website. Social networks are most welcome to disseminate information but platforms including Facebook will never be allowed to abuse election process for extraneous means, said Prasad. “I am open to the idea of conducting an investigation, they (Facebook) may be asked to explain their position,” he added. India has the largest user base for Facebook with over 241million users who mostly access the social network on their smartphones. The company also offers Facebook Lite, a lighter version of its app that can be accessed by users with low storage capacity and patchy internet. India is set to witness a series of state elections beginning in Karnataka leading up to the general elections next year. Political parties over the last few years have been shoring up their audience on social handles, using social media platforms to target and influence voters. In the past, Prasad has expressed concerns about misuse of social media including encouraging terrorism, communalism and hatred. He had also warned companies like Twitter to ensure there is no misuse of the platform by any “foreign” elements during the upcoming elections, especially the general elections due next year. While he said that one must learn to suffer criticism on social media but any kind of “abusive campaign” is not desirable. “I have conveyed my concerns to social media companies. They must ensure that their platforms are not used to defame people, promote terrorism and extremism.” He added that the government has been taking action on instances of fake news and misinformation on social media platforms and the government has the regulatory wherewithal to take necessary action. “In the existing law, both in the Indian Penal Code and in the IT Act, we have got powers,” Prasad said. Prasad said the government respects Facebook’s profile in India which is one of their largest markets. “But any data theft of Indians in collusion with Facebook will not be tolerated.” He added that if required the government will summon Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg to India in the same way as he is being questioned by the US government currently. data could not found Comments "			" Read more on Also Read India becoming a major mobile manufacturing hub: Ravi Shankar Prasad Congress known for treating judiciary unfairly: Ravi Shankar Prasad Mobile manufacturing to touch Rs 132,000 crore: Ravi Shankar Prasad India should become big centre for data analysis: Ravi Shankar Prasad Data leak: Ravi Shankar Prasad seeks Rahul's apology /articleshow_relatedtopic.cms?query=Ravi-Shankar-Prasad&excludeid;=63403156potime:263 Comments Add Your Comments Commenting feature is disabled in your country/region. /insert_native_content.cms?contentID='210766~63403156~0'&removens;=1potime:66 Top Trending Terms "							" Lok Sabha 2019 Polls Kairna Bypolls Bypoll Results RR Nagar Bypoll Election Results Narendra Modi HD Kumaraswamy Karnataka Election How to Save Income Tax Amit Shah Rahul Gandhi BJP Congress /seowidget.cms?msid=60936787potime:7 Most Read Most Shared Most Commented India's purchase of Russian S-400 to curb military cooperation: US View: Judging by first, does Narendra Modi deserve second term? Will ‘2+2’ add up to S-400s? Trump gives Modi a tough math problem to crack RR Nagar Election Result Updates: Congress scores massive victory Sangh Parivar invites former RBI chief Raghuram Rajan for Hindu Congress in Chicago More » /most_read.cms?days=3&msid;=1715249553potime:13 Tata Motors puts R&D; expenditure under scrutiny Subscription retailing, the new (old) channel for repeat shopping, is blooming in India. But it must watch out for dangerous turns. Indian startups want a piece of medical tourism action GO TO ET PRIME /prime_hwidget.cms?type=articleshow&secname;=news/politics-and-nationpotime:8 /article_view2.cms?msid=63403156&nextstry;=0potime:1624 Get a Quote Get Quote Browse Companies A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Browse Mutual Funds A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z /bottom_bar.cms?language=potime:21 Live Market News Portfolio Mobile Live TV Biz Listings Industry Newsletters Commodities Speed Blogs RSS About Us Create Your Own Ad Advertise with Us Terms of Use & Grievance Redressal Privacy policy Other Times Group news sites इकनॉमिक टाइम्स | ઈકોનોમિક ટાઈમ્સ | Pune Mirror | Bangalore Mirror | Ahmedabad Mirror | ItsMyAscent | Education Times | Brand Capital | Mumbai Mirror | Times Now | Indiatimes | नवभारत टाइम्स | महाराष्ट्र टाइम्स | ವಿಜಯ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ | Go Green | AdAge India | Eisamay | IGN India | NavGujarat Samay | Times of India | Samayam Tamil | Samayam Telugu | Miss Kyra | Bombay Times | Filmipop | BrainBaazi | BrainBaazi APP Living and Entertainment Timescity | iDiva | Entertainment | Zoom | Healthmeup | Luxpresso | Gadget Reviews | Titanium & Platinum Credit Card | Online Songs | MensXP | Hotels | Travel Destinations | Cricbuzz | Recipes | Gaana | Happytrips | Getsmartapp Interest Network itimes Hot on the Web Share Market | GST | Income Tax Slabs | Aadhaar Card | IFSC Code | Mutual Funds | How to save Income Tax | Sensex Today | Nifty Bank | Sensex | Income Tax Calculator | Karnataka Election 2018 Services Book print ads | Online shopping | Matrimonial | Astrology | Jobs | Tech Community | Property | Buy car | Bikes in India | Free Classifieds | Send money to India | Used Cars | Restaurants in Delhi | Remit to India | Buy Mobiles | Listen Songs | News | TimesMobile | Real Estate Developers | Restaurant Deals in Delhi | Car Insurance | Gadgets Now | Free Business Listings | CouponDunia | Remit2India | Techradar | AliveAR | Getsmartapp App | ETMoney Finance App | Feedback | Auto Manage Notifications In Case You Missed It Palghar bypoll Results Bypolls Election Results 2018 Kairana bypoll Results RR Nagar Bypoll Election Results Modi government Rahul Gandhi BJP Narendra Modi Karnataka Assembly Election 2018  Bharatiya Janata Party Chandrababu Naidu Siddaramaiah  Copyright © 2018 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service /etfooter_new.cms?rssid=1052732854potime:10 India will put Facebook in the dock if needed: Ravi Shankar Prasad Farmers' agitation hits several states Centre to take up protesting farmers' issue with state govts Even Mahatma Gandhi acknowledged RSS' positive values: Venkaiah Naidu Centre forms Cauvery Water Management Authority Modi government trying to invade peoples' privacy by creating social media hub: Congress Choose any BJP leader for debate, Smriti Irani challenges Rahul Gandhi HD Kumaraswamy seeks Infosys' Murthy's expertise in improving infra Dust storm with a wind speed of up to 40 kmph hits Delhi NCR Amit Shah meets former cricketer Kapil Dev as part of BJP's outreach exercise Will ensure no division of anti-BJP votes, strategy to differ from state to state: Congress /articleshowsp_list_bottom.cms?msid=1052732854potime:18 Mail This Article My Saved Articles Sign in Sign up Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Name Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. > endif] [if gte IE 9"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w968] HTML for-mobile-apps Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag     Begin Kiosked End Kiosked      																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w970]  Time to reassess our relationship with social media             News Sport Entertainment Business Lifestyle Culture Player TV Radio Weather More    Aertel Watch Live Lotto Apps Gaeilge RTÉ Archives Century Ireland Tech & Innovation RTÉ Orchestras About RTÉ RTÉ Shop RTÉ Brainstorm TRTÉ RTÉ Jr Blog  National Weather Warning   Ireland World Eighth Amendment Business Sport Politics Nuacht Programmes RTÉ Investigates Watch Live  Get updates from RTÉ Notifications on the latest stories and events, as they happen. Just hit 'Allow' on the next prompt Got it!  Time to reassess our relationship with social media     Many annoyed social media users have threatened to delete their accounts By Science & Technology Correspondent It is a complex, multi-faceted, layered, tangled web of a story. But if the revelations of recent days about Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and its connections to the Trump 2016 campaign tell us anything, it is this: it is well past time that we reassessed our relationships with social media. There are multiple shocking aspects to the story, as laid out by the Guardian, The New York Times and Channel 4 News in recent days. First, there was the placement in 2014 of the seemingly innocuous ""thisisyourdigitallife"" app on Facebook by Cambridge University professor Dr Aleksandr Kogan, which purported to be a ""personality test"" for a research project, but was actually being used to harvest huge amounts of data about users. There’s the fact that not only was that app capable of probing the lives of the 270,000 people who signed into it, but it was also able to reach deeper and scrape information about their friends too, something that astonishingly was considered okay by Facebook at the time. Then there was the apparent passing of the data relating to that collective 50 million people to Cambridge Analytica, a political consultancy in London, in clear violation of Facebook’s terms and conditions. And there’s the allegation, denied by Cambridge Analytica, that it used that treasure trove to understand individual US voters preferences better, so that they could then be micro-targeted with very specific hard-hitting ads and messages that favoured Donald Trump. In essence, the claim is that Facebook users’ data was used against them to influence and manipulate their voting behaviour, in what if proven to be effective would amount to an extraordinary undermining of the democratic process. There’s also the shocking reality that none of this was stopped by the authorities or by Facebook. The Office of the Data Protection Commissioner (ODPC) here, which is responsible for regulating Facebook’s international headquarters in Dublin, learnt from Austrian privacy campaigner Max Schrems in 2011 about the loophole that allowed Facebook users’ friends’ data to be harvested by developers. But despite the ODPC recommending it be closed in 2011 and 2012, Facebook sat on its hands until 2014, closing the loophole just after Dr Kogan had extracted the data he needed for his ""research"" that same year. Why though did the ODPC not do more to ensure it be dealt with sooner? And where was the UK’s Information Commissioner during all this? EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they ""ran all the digital campaign"" for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities. pic.twitter.com/kS0n88n5ud — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Facebook discovered that the data had been transferred to Cambridge Analytica in 2015.  But while it did seek and received written undertakings that it be destroyed, it didn’t tell regulators and it didn’t tell the users. That’s because Facebook claims that although its users had been misled by Dr Kogan, there hadn’t been a data breach in the traditional sense, as there had been no unauthorised access, nor had passwords or other sensitive information been compromised. Many experts though would beg to differ on that interpretation, which is now being probed by the UK’s Information Commissioner and the Federal Trade Commission in the US. Finally, there’s the shocking revelations unearthed by the excellent undercover reporting by Channel 4 News, about the wider alleged practices of Cambridge Analytica. Secret filming recorded senior executives, including now suspended CEO Alexander Nix, talking about how they could entrap politicians in compromising situation to discredit them, how they ran parts of Donald Trump’s campaign and discussing coordination between that campaign and outside groups – an activity that is potentially illegal. Cambridge Analytica’s board says Mr Nix’s comments do not reflect the values or the operations of the firm. In the wake of the avalanche of disturbing claims, there has been the usual predictable wave of shock and anger from public representatives, regulators and tech companies. Facebook says it is outraged. Politicians from Dublin to London to Brussels to Washington are calling for accountability and launching inquiries. Annoyed social media users have threatened to delete their accounts. What, if anything, will actually happen is unclear. But what is quite clear is this. Internet and social media firms have been let away with light-touch or in some cases no regulation for far too long. The tech industry is driven by many of the brightest minds on the planet and moves at lightning speed. It has been, therefore, next to impossible for ill-equipped regulators and public representatives, who in most cases haven’t the first idea of what is involved, to keep up and to come up with the legislation, policy and enforcement tools to keep check. There’s also the added problem, particularly in this country, that so much of our economy is grounded in digital services.  That has given tech companies significant clout when it comes to formulation of policy that may damage their operations. It’s time, therefore, for the political and regulatory establishment to get tough. Where regulations are deficient, like for example around the area of micro-targeting of political ads, legislators here need to plug the gaps. The beefing up of resources at the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner needs to continue and that body needs to flex its muscles around the countless large and influential tech firms here to show them who is boss. And finally, we need to play our part. Long gone are the days when ""I didn’t know"" or ""I didn’t understand"" are legitimate excuses when it comes to data protection. We may not have the time or the knowledge to understand the reams of terms and conditions we must agree to when we sign up to use internet services. But often common sense is a far more potent tool than being able to interpret jargon and legalese. Don’t share, don’t like, don’t download, don’t post unless you understand and are prepared to live with the consequences of your actions. Inform yourself about privacy settings and if you dislike the options or the results, then simply stop using an app, or better still, delete it. The old hackneyed phrase, if you are not paying for an internet product, then you are the product, has a strong element of truth to it. As a result, if you want to help influence behaviour in the internet industry the only effective way you can do so is by withdrawing your trust and your data, which are the lifeblood of the tech industry. And whatever happens, don’t take it for granted that tech companies, regulators or politicians have your back. Because if the last few days have proven anything, it is that they clearly don’t. More on News News Highlights Facebook Cambridge Analytica Dr Aleksandr Kogan Analysis and Comment      More by Will Goodbody Science & Technology Correspondent &commat;willgoodbody       More for you    Read News Sport Entertainment Lifestyle Culture Business Weather Gaeilge Tech & Innovation RTÉ Brainstorm Watch & Listen RTÉ Player RTÉ Player International RTÉ Live TV Radio RTÉ Services RTÉ Archives RTÉ Orchestras RTÉ Shop Century Ireland Lotto RTÉ Aertel Youth TRTÉ RTÉJr Help Contact Feedback Complaints Terms & Conditions Data Protection Privacy Statement Information Information About RTÉ License Fee Careers Annual Report Advertise with RTÉ 2rn SAORVIEW Newsletters Follow RTÉ  RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Broadcaster. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites. Images courtesy of Inpho.ie and Getty Images © RTÉ 2018  RTÉ uses cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy More Info I Understand      "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w971]  Facebook: storm in a much bigger data brew | Travel Industry News & Conferences - EyeforTravel testing    jQuery & UI  Popcorn Metaplayer     FONT AWESOME AddThisEvent  X Free Webinar: Travelbots - Shaping the Future of Traveller Experience   According to Forbes, ""Verified identity helps peel back the first layer of trust between strangers, which is crucial for the success of the sharing economy.” Join us for a webinar on how to leverage trust, improve security and accelerate your user experience.  Log in popup window Log in Username or e-mail Password Forgotten Password? Subscribe Close log in window  About Us EyeforTravel Blog Contact Us Reports Webinars Free Whitepapers Custom Research EyeforTravel Blog Distribution Strategies Mobile & Technology Revenue & Data Management Social Media & Marketing Events Search this site  /.block /.region Subscribe Log in   /.block /.region  Home About Us Meet the Team Events Whitepapers Webinars Podcasts Custom Research Video & Slides from our Conferences Reports Suggest a Research Topic Prospectus Subscribe /.block /.region Navigation  Distribution Strategies Mobile and Technology Revenue and Data Management Social Media and Marketing Eyefortravel Blog /.block /.region Facebook: storm in a much bigger data brew   /.block As the latest media furore around Facebook's handling, or mishandling, of data makes headlines across the world, and with the looming GDPR deadline, should travel businesses be more worried than ever? IMAGE SET IN PAGE TEMPLATE A watershed moment for how data is handled in the future, or a storm in a teacup? No doubt questions that many executives in all corners of countless organisations, including data-hungry travel businesses, will be asking this week as Facebook and Cambridge Analytica come under increasing scrutiny. For Keith Dewey, a GDPR whizz and cybersecurity expert who will be speaking at EyeforTravel’s upcoming London show , “there is nothing fundamentally new here at all”. It simply marks the ongoing drive of “exactly what privacy organisations, regulators and even Edward Snowden have been campaigning against since the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights!” As Dewey points out, people being targeted with specific information because of their private beliefs and actions has happened at many points in history. At its most extreme, this is how six million Jews became victims of a systematic, bureaucratic, state-sponsored persecution by Nazi Germany, just because of their beliefs. While Dewey stresses that the Holocaust is in no way a comparison to Facebook’s use of data, the amoutn of available personal data, and the way it is used has radically changed over the years. Ultimately,“the role of direct marketing and sales people is to deliver the most relevant offers to the people who are likely to be most interested!” Allegations against Facebook aren't new either as the table, drawn from various media sources including the Guardian and CNN, below highlights. The latest allegations, however, which relate to how data from 50-million Facebook users, harnessed from a ‘personality’ app commissioned by Cambridge Analytica, was potentially misused for targeting in the 2016 US election, seem to have created a bigger public and media outcry than usual. This may be down to concerns in Europe that data may also have been misused to swing the divisive Brexit vote.  Online marketing under the microscope The reality is that companies pay big money to Facebook, and other social platforms, to advertise their services, as Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge academic who developed the ‘personality’ app that harnessed the data, told BBC Radio 4 on the Today programme  this morning. Kogan, who claims to have been scapegoated, by both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, had this to say: “The big question here is how do social media platforms actually use people’s data, because fundamentally the project that Cambridge Analytica has allegedly done, which is to use Facebook data for micro-targeting is the primary use case for most data on these platforms. Facebook and Twitter and other platforms make their money through advertising, and so there is an agreement between the user saying ‘hey you will get this amazing product that costs billions of dollars to run’ and in return we can sell you to advertisers for micro-targeting.” In the light of GDPR, Facebook could be staring down a hefty fine - of up to 4% of its $41bn global turnover   Kogan says his only mistake is that he didn’t ask enough questions, and if nothing else, this represents the watershed moment. Because, despite of inertia on the part of huge numbers of users, who willingly, and often unknowingly, hand over their data for the privilege of using social platforms, organisations will no longer have the privilege of ‘not knowing’. While Facebook, whose CEO Mark Zuckerberg has been notably evasive the past few days, works out what to do next, top of mind will be the looming Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) legislation which comes into force on May 25th. Facebook could be staring down a hefty fine - of up to 4% of its $41-billion global turnover! With this in mind, Dewey recommends that other companies need to be thinking carefully about the following: Transparency for data subjects (individuals) to know what is happening to their data and to have control over how their data is being lawfully used. Better management of data , including the deletion of data when it is no longer specifically required. Demonstrable accountability  from companies and their management teams. Enhanced  contracts and oversight of third party processors. Eventually, it is hoped, this will lead to better levels of information security and privacy. Many travel companies have already been thinking about this as the deadline for GDPR compliance on May 25th rapidly approaches, and we will cover this in more detail from a travel perspective tomorrow. Join us at EyeforTravel Europe   (June 4,5,6) to hear more insights on getting the right processes in place from data expert Keith Dewey EyeforTravel Europe 2018 June 2018, London  Next Reads  Related Reads comments powered by /.block /.region /#main    /.block Upcoming Events EyeforTravel Europe 2018 London EyeforTravel North America 2018 Las Vegas EyeforTravel Data & Digital Europe 2018 Amsterdam /.block /.region /#sidebar-first  © EyeforTravel Ltd  |   Terms & Conditions  |  +44 (0) 207 375 7500  |   meredith@eyefortravel.com | Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Policy EyeforTravel Limited, a registered company in England and Wales - Registered Number 06286442. 7-9 Fashion Street, London, E1 6PX, UK   /.block /.region   © ,   Go to www.addthis.com/dashboard to customize your tools  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w972] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""http://www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd""   Republicans have the cash — but the cast is ever-changing | Irish Examiner    ePaper Postal Delivery Photos Competitions Newspaper Archive Advertise With Us Shop Death Notices Find a... Home Job IrishExaminer   go Home mobile Hot Topics - Ireland - Latest - Today's Stories  - Breaking News - GAA - Football - Hurling - Rugby - Soccer - Racing - Golf - Others - Columns - Podcast - Culture - Fashion/Beauty - Features - Food/Drink - Health/Life - Outdoors/Garden - Showbiz - Travel - Home - Columns - Analysis - Our View - Your View - Send your views - Columnists  Technow - Property Search Showbiz Weather Horoscopes Death Notices Web Archive Newspaper Archive - Advertise With Us - Apps - Competitions - ePaper - Photos - Postal Delivery - Shop - Home - Job  IRELAND Ireland Ireland Today Weather Web Archive WORLD SPORT Latest Gaa Rugby Soccer Racing Golf Other Podcast Columns BUSINESS VIEWS Columns Comment/Analysis Our View Your View Send Your View LIFE Culture Fashion Features Food/Drink Health/Life Outdoors/Garden Showbiz Travel Horoscopes Home/Interiors PROPERTY TECH SHOWBIZ ExamViral MOTORS News Reviews FARMING  go HOT TOPICS: Trade wars Indaver Jastine Valdez UL Video Series 2018 Farm Focus with FBD Israel  Home Breaking News views analysis  Republicans have the cash — but the cast is ever-changing Thursday, March 22, 2018 - 12:00 AM Robert Mercer and his daughter were key players in Trump’s victory. But they will find a repeat performance difficult, writes  Bette Browne A US Supreme Court ruling that allowed corporations to pour unlimited cash into American elections was a key factor in the perfect Cambridge Analytica storm that propelled Donald Trump to the White House. The Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling in 2010 declared that corporations could spend as much as they wanted to support candidates running for Congress or president as long as the contributions were not made directly to candidates. The ruling overturned major portions of the 2002 McCain-Feingold political spending restrictions and rolled back centuries-old law on corporate spending in political campaigning. In a key dissenting opinion, Justice Paul Stevens warned that the court made an error in treating corporate free speech the same as individual speech free and that opening the door to unlimited cooperate spending increased the chances of corruption in the political system. It was exactly the ruling that hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah had been hoping for and they set about exploiting it in full by ploughing millions into the new super PACs (political action committees) that sprung up. Steve Bannon persuaded the Mercers to back Trump in the presidential election, but he’s since been pushed out of the White House and Breitbart News. Picture: Mary Schwalm/AP They particularly liked the political work being done by the billionaire Koch brothers, Charles, 83, and David, 78, and pulled out all the stops to back Republican Mitt Romney in his bid to defeat President Barack Obama in 2012. When that bid failed, despite Romney outspending Obama by $100m, the Mercers were irate at what they saw as the ineffectiveness of the likes of the Koch brothers and began to look for better vehicles for their political ambitions. Enter Steve Bannon and Cambridge Analytica. Mercer was a major investor in Cambridge Analytica and was backing Republican Ted Cruz in the 2016 election. But Bannon had his eye on someone else. He believed Trump would be the perfect vehicle to carry his and the Mercers’ rightist political philosophy into the White House. He then went on to persuade Mercer to ditch Cruz and marry the Mercer money with Cambridge Analytica’s tactics and row in behind Trump. The Mercers didn’t need that much persuading. They were already big investors in Bannon’s own far-right Breitbart News online network, which had spent much of its time supporting Trump. In June 2016, according to US Federal Election Commission records, Trump’s campaign hired Cambridge Analytica and paid it over $6.2m. By then, according to whistleblower Christopher Wylie, the company had created psychological profiles of some 230m Americans. Thus, for all of them — Mercer, Bannon, and Cambridge Analytica — Trump was the perfect vehicle to test their theories that if someone could be branded as a populist outsider on the side of voters abandoned by the “Washington swamp”, that candidate could sweep to victory by tapping into anger and resentment, and even racism and xenophobia, and it wouldn’t matter that much if he had no political experience. In fact, that would be a bonus. And they were correct. Yet, isn’t that what much of politics is about — whoever fights hardest wins? And wasn’t Obama doing the same in tapping into Facebook and other social media platforms? In some ways yes, but the factor that made the real difference — unlimited campaign spending by corporations — only really came into its own in the 2016 election. There is also another factor: Unlimited spending by billionaires in US elections is skewing the political process in favour of Republican candidates. While there are many liberal Democratic billionaires like George Soros, there are far more conservative Republican or Libertarian-supporting ones like the Mercers and Koch brothers — and they also tend to be better-heeled. David and Charles Koch have personal fortunes of $17.5bn (€14.2bn) each, according to the Forbes billionaire list, while Soros has a net worth of $14bn. The oil refining Koch Industries is also the second-largest private US company with about $100bn in annual revenue. Soros is chairman of the hedge fund Soros Fund management with holdings valued at over $4bn. Other figures, too, tell a bleak story for Democrats. In January and February of this year, for example, the main fundraising arms of the Republican Party took in roughly four times as much as their Democratic counterparts, raising $39.4m to the Democrats’ $9.6m. In the years before the Supreme Court ruling opening the floodgates to unlimited spending, the picture looked more balanced for both parties. During the 2000 cycle, the Republican tally was $244m to the Democrats’ $219m; during the 2002 cycle, Republican funding was $250m to the Democrats’ $220m. In addition, since the court ruling, power has begun to tilt away from the two main parties and towards an increasingly powerful group of ultra-wealthy donors with political agendas focusing on their own financial needs rather than those of society as a whole. David Magerman, a senior employee at Mercer’s firm Renaissance Technologies, told the Wall Street Journal that Mercer’s political opinions “show contempt for the social safety net that he doesn’t need, but many Americans do”. Magerman added: “He thinks society is upside down — that government helps the weak people get strong, and makes the strong people weak by taking their money away, through taxes.” While the Mercers keep a close watch on their political spending, they also keep a low profile and avoid the press. However, in the closing weeks of the 2016 campaign after the video emerged showing Trump bragging about sexually assaulting women, Robert and Rebekah Mercer issued a statement condemning Republicans who abandoned Trump. “Those among the political elite who quake before the boom box of media blather do not appreciate the apocalyptic choice that America faces on November 8th,” it read. “We have a country to save and there is only one person who can save it.” Whether their “saviour” can do it again in 2020 is less certain. The financial floodgates will certainly remain as open as they were in 2016 but some of the characters in the perfect storm that year will be either missing in action or licking their wounds. Steve Bannon, for one, is now out in the cold. He was ousted from the Trump administration last August and after his attacks on Trump in the book Fire and Fury, he was pushed out of Breitbart — with the Mercers leading the charge against him.  News Daily Headlines Receive our lunchtime briefing straight to your inbox More in this Section Defenders of European status quo face fight on two fronts Legal ramifications abound as information drips out on adoption scandal Incinerator proposal approved: Decision is a warning to cut waste dramatically Readers' Blog: Impact of violent men on society’s individuals Today's Stories Funds boost for Indaver incinerator challenge Adoption scandal is only going to get bigger A mother’s search: ‘My baby could have been given to a couple anywhere’ State may pay for travel to Britain in cases of fatal foetal diagnosis Lifestyle New father’s life ‘changed forever’ after he was run over by surgeon The biggest cancer killer will take your breath away Hopefully she had an idea... Power of the press: Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks discuss 'The Post' More From The Irish Examiner   Most Read Top Stories Bishop defends Church position and describes referendum celebrations as 'horrific' Eight magical places to visit in Cork RTE journalist reveals Martin Callinan told him Maurice McCabe had psychiatric issues 'Young Offenders' and 'Derry Girls' rule at IFTAs Ana Kriegel: Siberian warrior who was a vulnerable girl inside Grant issue now a serious distraction Murder of schoolgirl Ana Kriegel a 'complicated case', court told Five candidates in running for top Garda role Game plan must evolve to get best of a terrific 10 Kerry suffered by having 'too easy a time' in recent years, says Sheehan SPORT Will Limerick’s rest week prove pick-me-up or passion killer to Munster hopes? Fresher Limerick have package to trump Cork’s marquee names Examviral These songs for the elderly are hilariously relatable WATCH: Father Ray Kelly's emotional Britain Got Talent's semi-final performance A student ordered takeaway just to get the delivery driver to remove a spider 7 things to do this Bank Holiday Weekend Suzanne ‘So Sue Me’ Jackson announces pop-up beauty shop This poor pup was found covered in marker pen scrawl – now she has a new home  Start the search for your new job  All Regions Dublin Cork Limerick Galway --------------------- Dublin Dublin North Dublin South Dublin West Dublin City Centre Antrim Armagh Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Derry Donegal Down Fermanagh Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Tyrone Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow --------------------- Rest of Leinster Munster Connaught/Ulster Northern Ireland Nationwide --------------------- UK Europe Worldwide Australia United Arab Emirates New Zealand Canada USA North Africa South Africa Middle East GO  Lotto Results Wednesday, May 30, 2018  Full Lotto draw results » Follow the Irish Examiner    Breaking News Today´s Paper World Business Farming Technology Weather Death Notices Archives Soccer Podcast Columnists GAA Rugby Golf Racing Other Sport Results Our view (editorial) Your view (letters) Send letter to editor's page Columnists Showbiz Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Health & Life Home & Interiors Horoscopes Property Travel Arts, Books, Film & TV Features Motors FAQ Contact Us Media Pack Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Mobile Subscriptions Terms and Conditions NNI ePaper Postal Delivery Competitions RSS © Irish Examiner Ltd, Linn Dubh, Assumption Road, Blackpool, Cork. Registered in Ireland: 523712.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w973]  Zuckerberg 'sorry' over Cambridge Analytica scandal             News Sport Entertainment Business Lifestyle Culture Player TV Radio Weather More    Aertel Watch Live Lotto Apps Gaeilge RTÉ Archives Century Ireland Tech & Innovation RTÉ Orchestras About RTÉ RTÉ Shop RTÉ Brainstorm TRTÉ RTÉ Jr Blog  National Weather Warning  Ireland World Eighth Amendment Business Sport Politics Nuacht Programmes RTÉ Investigates Watch Live  Get updates from RTÉ Notifications on the latest stories and events, as they happen. Just hit 'Allow' on the next prompt Got it!  Zuckerberg 'sorry', vows tougher actions over access to data     Mark Zuckerberg said on Facebook that the company 'made mistakes'  Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has promised tougher steps to restrict developers’ access to data belonging to 50 million of the company’s users. Speaking in an interview with CNN, he apologised for mistakes his company made in how it handled the data. The world's largest social media network is facing growing government scrutiny in Europe and the United States about a whistleblower's allegations that London-based political consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed user information to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect US President Donald Trump in 2016. ""This was a major breach of trust. I'm really sorry this happened. We have a basic responsibility to protect people's data,"" Mr Zuckerberg said in the interview, breaking a public silence since the scandal erupted at the weekend. Last night, he said in a post on Facebook the company ""made mistakes, there's more to do, and we need to step up and do it."" He said the social network planned to conduct an investigation of thousands of apps that have used Facebook's platform, restrict developer access to data, and give members a tool that lets them to disable access to their Facebook data more easily. His plans did not represent a big reduction of advertisers' ability to use Facebook data, which is the company's lifeblood. Mr Zuckerberg said he was open to additional government regulation and happy to testify before the US Congress if he was the right person. ""I'm not sure we shouldn't be regulated,"" he told CNN. ""I actually think the question is more what is the right regulation rather than yes or no, should it be regulated? ... People should know who is buying the ads that they see on Facebook."" Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg: ""I'm not sure we shouldn't be regulated. ... I actually think the question is more, 'What is the right regulation?' rather than, 'Yes or no, should it be regulated?'"" https://t.co/Vwpp8ubjsG pic.twitter.com/pnwdrR6yEp — CNN (@CNN) March 22, 2018 Mr Zuckerberg said Facebook was committed to stopping interference in the US midterm election in November and elections in India and Brazil. Read more: Facebook's Zuckerberg admits mistakes over data use What is Cambridge Analytica? Time to reassess our relationship with social media WhatsApp co-founder backing #deletefacebook  Facebook shares pared gains yesterday after Mr Zuckerberg's post, closing up 0.7%. The company has lost more than $45 billion of its stock market value over the past three days on investor fears that any failure by big tech firms to protect personal data could deter advertisers and users and invite tougher regulation. Mr Zuckerberg told the New York Times in an interview published yesterday he had not seen a ""meaningful number of people"" deleting their accounts over the scandal. Facebook representatives, including Deputy Chief Privacy Officer Rob Sherman, met US congressional staff for nearly two hours yesterday and planned to continue meetings on Capitol Hill today. Facebook was unable to answer many questions, two aides who attended the briefing said. Mr Zuckerberg told the website Recode that fixes to protect users' data would cost ""many millions of dollars."" The whistleblower who launched the scandal, Christopher Wylie, formerly of Cambridge Analytica, said on Twitter he had accepted invitations to testify before US and UK lawmakers. The German government said Facebook must explain whether the personal data of the country's 30 million users were protected from unlawful use by third parties, according to a report in the Funke group of German regional newspapers. On Tuesday, the board of Cambridge Analytica suspended its Chief Executive Alexander Nix , who was caught in a secret recording boasting that his company played a decisive role in Mr Trump's presidential victory. Meanwhile, a suspicious package was found near the headquarters of Cambridge Analytica in London, prompting police to close nearby roads and evacuate the building. ""The building has been evacuated as a precaution,"" police said. ""No injuries have been reported."" More on News World Business Facebook Cambridge Analytica Mark Zuckerberg     More for you    Read News Sport Entertainment Lifestyle Culture Business Weather Gaeilge Tech & Innovation RTÉ Brainstorm Watch & Listen RTÉ Player RTÉ Player International RTÉ Live TV Radio RTÉ Services RTÉ Archives RTÉ Orchestras RTÉ Shop Century Ireland Lotto RTÉ Aertel Youth TRTÉ RTÉJr Help Contact Feedback Complaints Terms & Conditions Data Protection Privacy Statement Information Information About RTÉ License Fee Careers Annual Report Advertise with RTÉ 2rn SAORVIEW Newsletters Follow RTÉ  RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Broadcaster. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites. Images courtesy of Inpho.ie and Getty Images © RTÉ 2018  RTÉ uses cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy More Info I Understand      "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w974]   When it comes to Facebook we must focus on the message - not the form of delivery When it comes to Facebook we must focus on the message - not the form of delivery Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement Opinion National Facebook When it comes to Facebook we must focus on the message - not the form of delivery By Justin Wastnage Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size Last July, the mood in the hotel lobby bar in Wellington, just across from the Beehive parliament buildings, was buoyant. We had just delivered a blunt message in person to the then New Zealand transport minister about the need for greater funding for regional airports. To many of the lobbyists in the room, it was a case of ""job done"". But we were about to unleash a far more potent tool than traditional lobbying: We had built a social media profiling tool and were getting ready to launch a series of targeted advertisements in key marginal seats as soon as the election was officially launched. There was scepticism:“Who cares what the farmers of Waitaki think?” was the blunt question raised by one of the Auckland-centric crowd. Whatakane Airport in New Zealand. The answer was, of course, politicians. If we could get those farmers, along with loggers and factory workers to care about the issue, then politicians would too. Political advertising is not new. Although restricted in many countries in Europe, campaign advertising nonetheless represents the bulk of all electioneering budgets in most developed democracies. Advertisement The issue in the Cambridge Analytica case is not the means of delivery, but the dishonest message it was used to convey. Facebook (and to a lesser extent Google) is a ruthlessly efficient means of targeting the advertising. For example, in our campaign, we knew that access to air ambulances played better among voters consideringNew Zealand First, while Labour voters were interested in social cohesion and regional connectivity. So we tailored messages and restricted our advertising to voters living with 50 kilometres of just 12 small airports across New Zealand. We were able to get our message out to roughly one-fifth of voters in the 20 marginal regional electorates that we were targeting. Unlike Cambridge Analytica, we did not acquire a secondary data set by which to further refine the targeting. Also, we ensured our campaign spending stayed well below the levels permitted under the NZ Electoral Act. And we were also scrupulous in ensuring we did not misrepresent the facts. But as the Brexit and Trump campaigns illustrate, many who use social media advertising do not worry about accuracy of their claims. Social media demands an immediacy of content that lends itself to alternative facts. We didn’t have Hillary Clinton in handcuffs, but we did have to distill our complex messages down into animated GIFS, clickable infographics and 10-second video clips to get the attention of voters scrolling through Facebook. We even had messages specifically tailored for those electorates reserved for Maori voters. Our work paid off. Jacinda Ardern retweeted one of our campaign GIFS, forcing the then prime minister Bill English to also like it. This combined action saw the message reach about 700,000 New Zealanders, most of whom lived in the cities and had previously been oblivious to our campaign. NZ First went on to win nine seats and form a coalition government with Ardern’s Labour. We know that funding for regional airports is an issue that has been discussed. So while regulations on political advertising on social media will undoubtedly be tightened in light of recent events, more attention needs to be paid to the message - to ensuring truth and accuracy - than to restricting the means of delivery. That is not a call for censorship. Not least since I am also part of an exciting project that will automate video editing based on people’s social preference. Yet greater control over the veracity of the information portrayed is required. The Australian Electoral Act is pretty good in this regard, not least since all messages need to be authorised by someone. Extending this to third party campaigning groups and lobbyists will be key. Justin Wastnage is the principal at Message Shapers Public Affairs and founder of the Vloggi video messaging platform. License this article Facebook Mark Zuckerberg Opinion Most Viewed in National Morning & Afternoon Newsletter Delivered Mon–Fri. Email address By signing up you accept our privacy policy and conditions of use The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times The Canberra Times WAtoday The Australian Financial Review Domain Traveller Good Food Executive Style The Store by Fairfax Drive Adzuna RSVP Essential Baby Essential Kids Weatherzone Tributes Celebrations Place your ad Commercial Real Estate Oneflare Nabo Contact & support Advertise with us Newsletters Accessibility guide Sitemap Subscription packages Subscriber benefits My account Subscriptions FAQs Today's Paper Photo sales Purchase front pages Fairfax syndication Fairfax events Fairfax careers Conditions of use Privacy policy Press Council Copyright © 2018 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w975]  News Features Gigs New Music Music Jobs Videos Artists Festivals Store About Advertise Contact us Terms and Conditions Privacy   Share Tweet Science says that fans of Placebo & The Smiths tend to be quite neurotic Written by Tyler Jenke  on Mar 22, 2018 Science can determine some pretty wild stuff. Why, just last year, a devoted fan was able to use statistics to work out which Radiohead song is the saddest (because you were dying to know, right?), but now thanks to Facebook, we’ve been able to find out just which personality traits seem to align with popular musicians. If you’ve been following the news lately, then you might have heard about the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which it was revealed that US politicians have been using the Facebook data of millions of users to target specific ads towards them based upon their likes and interests. Sure, this might sound a bit dry and non-musical, but you might just be wondering “What else does Facebook know about me?” Well, as it turns out, they probably know you better than you know yourself. As  The New York Times reports , a study was undertaken in 2015 by Stanford University and Cambridge University’s Psychometrics Center in which they used a Facebook app called myPersonality to learn more about Facebook users. The Times described this app as “a 100-question quiz developed by the Psychometrics Center that assessed a person’s openness, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and neuroticism.” As it turns out, those who took the quiz allowed access to their Facebook profiles by the app, which managed to cross-reference the results of the quiz with the user’s Facebook likes, thus using a model to predict behaviour based on what people liked on the social service. So what did the study find? Well, in addition to determining that those who partake in activities such as running, cooking, and travelling were more conscientious than those who enjoyed programs such as  Adventure Time and  Skins , the study also detected a few musical correlations too. Specifically, the study revealed that people who listen to music by artists such as Björk and Tom Waits tend to be more open, while those who listen to acts such as Jason Aldean and Luke Bryan tend to go in the opposite direction. Likewise, fans of Placebo, The Smiths, and Bring Me The Horizon tend to be rather neurotic, while fans of Marilyn Manson, Rammstein, and Judas Priest tend not to be very agreeable. Meanwhile, fans of Counting Crows tend to be the most agreeable, while fans of bands like Nightwish tend to be much more introverted than fans of hip-hop and EDM. Isn’t science amazing? Check out The Smiths’ ‘This Charming Man’:   Share Tweet Tell Us What You Think You may also like A Perfect Circle make a huge return with ‘Disillusioned’ Looks like the new Guns N’ Roses reunion will be coming to Australia Foo Fighters pop-up bars, with ‘Foo Town’ beer open in Sydney and Melb. next week Mike D’s biggest fear is having the Beastie Boys compared to 311  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w976] Facebook: What Mark Zuckerberg’s Cambridge Analytica statement was missing all.esi prod 2018-05-25T00:17:02.584Z 703ff80507f8456f2956abee01e931a1c995e827 url empty ?: 0 ID: 71beb084be46e2b575aa8350122e6216 ID_Type: CAPIID Is mobile: false 2018-03-28T02:39:59.047Z fb8a924b1ea7aa468da673a663c420e3cb3d2368 adobe pixel not fired end of all.esi Skip to: Main Content Site Navigation Site footer Site Map Hipages Fox Sports SEEK Carsales RealEstate News Network news.com.au News.com.au National World Lifestyle Travel Entertainment Technology Finance Sport Search online social The three things missing from Zuckerberg’s public statement IN A fascinating moment during a TV interview Mark Zuckerberg said he would ‘love to see’ stricter regulation of social media. Video Image Facebook to take steps to protect user data Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has outlined additional steps the social network will take to protect user data, after conceding his company 'made mistakes' in relation to the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Breaking his silence after days of brutal global coverage, he described the situation as a breach of trust. Facebook's crisis unfolded after a whistleblower revealed shadowy data firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly accessed information on Facebook users to build detailed profiles on American voters for Donald Trump's US presidential campaign. March 22nd 2018 2 months ago Three things Zuckerberg didn’t say in public statement. MARK Zuckerberg has finally broken his silence over the Cambridge Analytica scandal but there was something missing from his public statement. The Facebook boss went into detail about how the current company crisis unfolded and what it has done to prevent third party developers from improperly farming out the data they collect from Facebook users. But after days of silence the statement “rings hollow,” critics said. There was no apology, no mention of answering the calls to front regulators and no mention of democracy. He wrote of “what happened” instead of “what we did,” leaving Facebook one step removed from responsibility. The social media mogul described the details which led to 50 million users having their data improperly obtained and exploited in an attempt to sway democratic elections. Dr Aleksandr Kogan was the University of Cambridge researcher who initially collected the data for scientific purposes and later sold it off to the shadowy analytics firm. “This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Mr Zuckerberg wrote. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it. We need to fix that.” Politicians in the US and Europe are calling for him to face questions in Parliament in the wake of the revelations, and Australian regulators have previously expressed a similar desire. But Mr Zuckerberg made no indications whether he will accept any such invitations. We’ve invited Mark Zuckerberg to the European Parliament. Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy. — Antonio Tajani (@EP_President) March 20, 2018 Technology journalist David Kirkpatrick and author of T he Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that is Connecting the World was among the people calling for the 33-year-old billionaire to do more. “It’s good you’ve written something, but taking questions from the press in person would begin — just begin — to rebuild the toxic decline in trust this incident and all the other recent data lapses have engendered,” he replied to Mr Zuckerberg’s post. “In my opinion you should not hide behind a Facebook post when you lead a company with the data of 2.2 billion people that many of us now fear is jeopardising democracy at a global scale. It’s sad to have to write it this way, but so it is.” Mr Zuckerberg responded, saying he was set to appear on CNN later today, an interview that went to air at midday AEST. “I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I’m responsible for what happens on our platform,” he wrote in his post. But the public and many in the media were quick to point out that the post lacked a certain level of contrition, steering well clear of an apology. What's not in Zuckerberg's 937-word statement: No pledge to address Congress No discussion of regulation No reckoning of why Facebook now cares about this old event (they got busted, stock dropped) No words like apology, sorry, regret More in our lead story at 6pm tonight... — Ari Melber (@AriMelber) March 21, 2018 It wasn't us. No one saw us. We won't do it again. - Zuckerberg — Jim Daly (@psneeze) March 21, 2018 Tech publication Mashable wasn’t messing around. However, it’s probably naive to expect an earnest mia culpa from Mr Zuckerberg because Facebook is working exactly like it’s supposed to. “This is exactly Facebook’s business model,” as Chester Wisniewski, a senior security analyst at Sophos pointed out this week . “Except they want to be the ones doing the analytics and making all the money.” THE ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM Cambridge Analytica’s client list included Donald Trump’s general-election campaign and has also been linked to the Leave vote in the Brexit campaign. The company’s CEO was secretly filmed bragging about how his data-mining firm helped elect the current US president, although the Trump campaign has completely denied the claims. While the truth is probably somewhere in the middle, Mr Zuckerberg made no mention of the data’s alleged use by the Trump campaign or no mention of the democratic process at all — a glaring omission that has rankled some commentators. Mark Zuckerberg’s apology rings hollow. Facebook has almost single-handedly destroyed our constitutional right to privacy and helped an American dictator steal an election. We need our democracy back. — Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) March 21, 2018 Mr Zuckerberg has previously tried to downplay the company’s impact on democratic elections in public, despite it being a sales pitch behind closed doors. The company’s website even hosted a public page boasting about its ability to influence elections. The web page was quietly removed by Facebook earlier this month. In November 2016, Mr Zuckerberg largely dismissed the impact of fake news which spread on Facebook during the presidential election. “Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, it’s a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way is a pretty crazy idea,” he said. —Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg knew in 2011 data abuse was a problem —Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg knew in 2015 Cambridge Analytica had abused their terms of service with customer data —Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg did NOT care until a whistleblower went public four days ago — Pé Resists (@4everNeverTrump) March 21, 2018 THE FIX IS IN In his first public statement, the Facebook boss gave a detailed account of events that led to the current scandal starting with how Facebook previously allowed users to share their friends’ profiles and information with third party apps as far back as 2007 — a change that was all but repealed in 2014. Third-party app developers can now only collect your name, profile photo and email address, Mr Zuckerberg said. Facebook will also remove developers’ access to your data if you haven’t used the app in three months. “We want to make sure you understand which apps you’ve allowed to access your data. In the next month, we will show everyone a tool at the top of your News Feed with the apps you’ve used and an easy way to revoke those apps’ permissions to your data,” he wrote. ZUCKERBERG ‘HAPPY’ FOR FACEBOOK REGULATION In an interview with CNN that aired early this afternoon, the Facebook CEO said he would be happy to testify in front of the US congress and would welcome regulation around advertising revenue on social media. When asked if he was willing to answer the call to testify in front of US lawmakers he said: “The short answer is I’m happy to if it’s the right thing to do.” “What we try to do is send the person at Facebook who will have the most knowledge,” he said. “If that’s me, then I am happy to go.” Although Facebook employs a small army of lawyers and lobbyists on Capitol Hill, the Facebook CEO himself has never testified before a congressional committee. In perhaps the most interesting moment of the interview, Mr Zuckerberg also threw his support behind more stringent regulation of advertising on platforms like Facebook. “I’m not sure we shouldn’t be regulated,” he said. “There are things like ad transparency regulation that I would love to see.” After being criticised for not apologising in his earlier statement, Mr Zuckerberg took the opportunity to do so in the TV interview. “This was a major breach of trust, and I’m really sorry that this happened,” he said. “We have a basic responsibility to protect peoples’ data.” Tens of billions have been wiped off Facebook’s value this week. trending in technology 186 Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane weather: Do we all need to man u... 107 NSW parking fines slashed by 25 per cent 106 Personal Data: Why you should google yourself 51 2018 internet trends: Amazon Echo and voicebots to usurp sma... 39 Turn left on red: Brisbane City Council scaling back road ru... Share on Facebook Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Twitter Share via Email Share via Email Leave a comment Add your comment to this story Show Comments Jump back to top MORE IN online Revulsion at new online matchmaker ‘F**k Google’: street protest erupts Video shows how to survive knife attack Brawling women caught on video Facebook trick: ‘Disgustingly devious’ Flashing tourist pranks Google Maps Truth about these unsettling photos Trump blasted for ‘sickening’ post FOLLOW US ADVERTISE ABOUT US NEWSLETTERS CONNECT Be rewarded for your opinions Legal: Privacy Policy Relevant Ads Opt-Out Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out. News Limited Copyright © 2018. All times AEST (GMT +10). "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w977] [if lt IE 7]> < lang=""en"" class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7""> endif] [if IE 7 < lang=""en"" class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8""> endif] [if IE 8 < lang=""en"" class=""lt-ie9""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w978] HTML PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"" Facebook & The Power Of Social Data - Commentary - Share Cafe    LOGIN JOIN SHARECAFE SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER ADVERTISE    || logo   ShareCafe_TOS_728x90    || navigation  HOME SHARES FIXED ETFs SUPER VIDEO MY SHARE CAFE CONTRIBUTORS     ||  SHARECAFE COMMENTARY Facebook & The Power Of Social Data BY DANIEL WU - 22/03/2018 | VIEW MORE ARTICLES BY THE MONTGOMERY TEAM LEARN HOW TO MAXIMISE YOUR SUPERANNUATION WHILE LEGALLY MINIMISING YOUR TAX FREE EBOOK - DOWNLOAD TODAY  Over the weekend, The New York Times and The Observer of London published an exposé on Cambridge Analytica’s use of over 50 million illegally obtained Facebook profiles to build out a psychographic platform for targeting American voters and influencing their behaviour during the 2016 Presidential Election. Facebook shares sold off 7 per cent in reaction to the story and led the broader tech sector lower on heightened concerns over data privacy and regulation. Rather than concern over regulation, we believe this incident highlights just how powerful Facebook’s data are. Cambridge Analytica is a data science company that was hired by the Trump campaign to create psychographic models of the American electorate. In order to do so, the company needed data – more data than it could feasibly collect on its own, and specifically the kind of data that only Facebook and Google would have. Both Facebook and Google are frictionless aggregators of user data, but Facebook’s business model renders it inherently more vulnerable to this kind of data “breach” than Google. Google’s value comes from its position as gatekeeper of the internet – if a website does not appear on Google’s search results, it for all intents and purposes does not exist. This means Google can collect revenue and third-party data without exchanging its own data. Indeed, the company has gotten into trouble with regulators over anticompetitive practices such as scraping data from third party websites to use on its own platforms. On the other hand, Facebook’s value is derived from the trove of proprietary personal data generated by its over 2 billion monthly users. However, the data has no value in and of itself until it is monetised through targeted advertising and third-party websites or applications. It is through a third-party application that Cambridge Analytica ultimately got its hands on 50 million Facebook profiles. In 2014, 270,000 Americans downloaded a survey app and consented to having their Facebook data harvested. At the time, Facebook permissions allowed users to “consent” to their friends’ data being collected by third parties without their friends’ knowledge (this permission has since been removed). Since each user had on average several hundred friends, it resulted in 50 million users unknowingly, and without informed consent, allowing their personal data to be profiled for political targeting by the Trump campaign. The current backlash against Facebook has to do with how it failed to prevent the personal data of 50 million users from landing in Cambridge Analytica’s hands without the users’ knowledge, and what can be done to prevent such breaches (in the practical sense) from happening again. While Cambridge Analytica has denied the efficacy of its psychographic targeting on the Trump campaign, the thought that Facebook’s user-generated data can be manipulated to sway said users’ voting decisions hints at just how powerful and comprehensive Facebook’s data are. Facebook is already under fire for its alleged failure to prevent Russian interference during the 2016 Election, and this new revelation further fuels the flames. The most obvious risk right now is regulation designed to curb Facebook’s power, although such regulation would be unprecedented as Facebook’s model is itself unprecedented. The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) takes a huge step towards restricting what companies can do with personal data without explicit user consent and enforcing data portability to ensure greater individual control over personal data. However, regulation usually means trade-off, and heavy-handed regulation in the area of data privacy could inadvertently result in incumbents such as Facebook and Google accruing even more market power (and thus control over more data). Consider that one oft-cited remedy for the concentration of power in social media is the portability of social graphs – that this, the ability to transfer your existing friends list and content to a new network. The idea here is that such social graph portability would allow new startups to better compete against the incumbents, as switching costs created by the network effect would not be so high. However, stricter regulations on the sharing of personal data (i.e. GDPR’s goal) would undermine this, as each friend would have to explicitly consent to their data and user content being shared across networks. Whatever happens to be the political or regulatory fallout from these recent developments, this will be an interesting space to watch, not only with respect to Facebook, but also for the broader group of megacap technology companies.  View More Articles By The Montgomery Team Roger Montgomery is the Chief Investment Officer of Montgomery Investment Management, montinvest.com , and author of blog.rogermontgomery.com . Roger's step-by-step guide to valuing the best stocks and buying them for less than they're worth, Value.able , is available exclusively at rogermontgomery.com. Skaffold is an online stock-picking application that rates ASX-listed stocks from A1 to C5. Watch a demo of Skaffold at www.skaffold.com .  + RETURN TO TOP OF PAGE      ShareCafe_TOS_300x250 300x600 RECENTLY ADDED TO SHARECAFE   › Marcus Today End Of Day Report   › Friday At The Close   › High Yield Bond Issue Another Way To Go Shopping With Afterpay   › Local Miner Set To Cut Costs By 40%   › Stars Align For Highlands Pacific   › Sunstone On The Cusp Of Major Discovery   › Are You Following The Italian Saga?   › Why These Income Mainstays Have Bounced   › Australian Corporate Bond Price Tables   › Next Week At A Glance   › Market At Midday On Friday   › Thank Cheap Money For All The Tech   › Thinking About An Autonomous Future   › MND - Macquarie rates as Neutral More ShareCafe     GET THE SHARECAFE BREAKFAST BRIEFING   SHARECAFE VIDEO  More video      ShareCafe_BOS_300x250      Share_Cafe_728x90_BOS     Copyright © 2018 Spring FG Digital Pty Ltd. ACN 143 840 528. All rights reserved. No portion of this website may be reproduced, copied or in any way released without written permission. CAR 1237354 of AFSL 391655 | Terms Of Service | Financial Services Guide | Privacy Policy | Contact | Advertise  Analytics Analytics End "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w979] Zuckerberg: 'We breached the trust of users over Cambridge Analytica' - AdNews  End of JavaScript Tag End of JavaScript Tag End of JavaScript Tag /.row /.container  /.header-logo /.col-md-4 col-md-push-4 /.col-md-4 .col-md-pull-4 /.col-md-4 /.row /.header End of JavaScript Tag /.row  News Opinions Campaigns Collections Rankings Top Agency Rankings Advertising Agencies (to 2015) Media Agencies (to 2015) Digital Agencies (to 2015) Events Agency of the Year Awards AOTY AWARD WINNERS 1987-2017 Advertising Hall of Fame Media + Marketing Summit Australian Magazine Awards /.navbar .navbar-inverse /.container /.navbar-container Zuckerberg: 'We breached the trust of users over Cambridge Analytica' /.media-object .pull-left By Arvind Hickman | 22 March 2018 /.pull-left Comment   /.pull-right /.clearfix  /.clearfix /.media-body /.media Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. /.img-caption /.img-container .pull-right Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has admitted the social media network breached the trust of its users and revealed the steps it will take to tighten the data security of users in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Pressure has mounted on Facebook since a Cambridge Analytica whistleblower described in detail how it used the social media platform to harvest the profiles of between 50 million to 60 million users in a campaign to get Donald Trump elected to US president in the 2016. Zuckerberg admitted that Facebook made mistakes in handling the situation which it first became aware of in 2015. He said that while there had been a breach of trust between Facebook, Cambridge University professor Aleksandr Kogan and Cambridge Analytica, the social media network had also breached the trust of “the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it”. To fix the problem, Facebook is conducting an audit of all apps that had access to large amounts of users and friends data prior to changes in 2014 that prevented developers from access large amounts it. “We will ban any developer from our platform that does not agree to a thorough audit. And if we find developers that misused personally identifiable information, we will ban them and tell everyone affected by those apps,” Zuckerberg said. Facebook will also ban developers' access to user data for apps that lay dormant for three months or more. It will also restrict the amount of data to “only your name, profile photo, and email address”. It will also take steps to better notify users of privacy settings that restrict the amount of data users share with developers. Labor's message to Facebook  In Australia, federal Labor MP Mark Dreyfus has called on Facebook and the government to look into whether any Australians have been affected by the scandal. “It will be of concern to all Australians who use Facebook that Cambridge Analytica has allegedly used the data of 50 million American Facebook users without their consent,” Dreyfus told AdNews. “Labor wants to hear from Facebook whether anyone in Australia has had their data used in this way. The government needs to look into this immediately and find out whether any Australians have had their data used and whether any laws have been broken. “If the privacy of Australians has been illegally breached, the government must act to ensure it does not happen again.” A Facebook spokesperson told AdNews it takes the private information of users seriously and is investigating. Yesterday, Thinkerbell co-founder Adam Ferrier told AdNews the scandal was another  “nail in the coffin of trust” in how companies collect and use data. Ferrier's comments about tech companies rolling out new innovations without properly considering their impact are more poignant today. Have something to say on this? Share your views in the comments section below. Or if you have a news story or tip-off, drop us a line at adnews@yaffa.com.au Sign up to the AdNews newsletter , like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter for breaking stories and campaigns throughout the day. /.article .article-main Related Stories Cambridge Analytica scandal 'another nail in the coffin of trust' - Adam Ferrier How Cambridge Analytica harvested 60m Facebook profiles to influence the US election Cambridge Analytica techniques have 'a lot of cross over' with advertising /.media /.section comments powered by /.col-md-8 main-content End of JavaScript Tag /.section /.media-object .pull-right AdNews Newsletter /.media-body /.media /.section /.media-object .pull-right AdNews Magazine Subscribe /.media-body /.media /.section Editor's Picks Join South African Tourism as a service provider Behind the new look AdNews Mark Frain warns caution on addressable TV journey, ahead of AdNews Melbourne Summit /.media /.section End of JavaScript Tag End of JavaScript Tag /.section missing job config End of JavaScript Tag End of JavaScript Tag /.section AdNews Social /.social-heading /.section Latest Comments /.section-heading /.section End of JavaScript Tag /.col-md-6 End of JavaScript Tag /.col-md-6 End of JavaScript Tag /.col-md-6 End of JavaScript Tag /.col-md-6 /.row /.section /.aside .col-md-4 /.row /.container /.wrapper About AdNews Advertise Contact Us Privacy Policy Site Map Newsletter Subscribe Terms & Conditions Yaffa Media Web Advertising Specs Print Advertising Specs Mobile Site /.text-center Yaffa Daemon /.text-center /.container /.footer Website engineered by Daemon: http://www.daemon.com.au JavaScript Tag // Tag for network 5422: Yaffa // Website: AdNews // Page: Home // Placement: POP UP (3599673) // created at: Sep 29, 2015 7:06:10 PM End of JavaScript Tag "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w980] [if lte IE 7]>< class=""ie7 lte8 lte9 "" lang=""en-au""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""ie8 lte8 lte9 "" lang=""en-au""> endif] [if IE 9 < class=""ie9 lte9 "" lang=""en-au""> endif] desktop pages/base/base.jsp pages/base/desktop.jsp pages/base/desktop/head.jsp Cambridge Analytica exploited Facebook data with style | afr.com Digital Data Script Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager [if IE endif] Always force IE to render in the most recent mode pages/article/desktop/body.jsp Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Help using this website - Accessibility statement Financial Review - afrrr.com Menu Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design All News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports Rear Window Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Gambling Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters to the Editor Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Leadership Management Careers Company Culture Innovation Entrepreneur Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars, Bikes & Boats Health Home Design The Australian Financial Review Magazine Luxury The Sophisticated Traveller SEARCH BAR Toggle the AFR search box Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search  SEARCH BAR END Close menu SEARCH BAR Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search  SEARCH BAR END Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design Markets Data   My Saved Articles Done Select All Remove <li>  <a href=""#all"">  All  </a>  </li>  News  <li>  <a href=""#topic"">  Topic  </a>  </li>  <li>  <a href=""#asx"">  ASX  </a>  </li>  <li>  <a href=""#people"">  People  </a>  </li> <div id=""all"" class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> <div id=""topic"" class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> <div class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> <div id=""people"" class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> My Saved Searches Done Select all Delete  Home News World pages/article/desktop/content.jsp   Mar 22 2018 at 9:55 AM           Updated Mar 22 2018 at 12:57 PM       Save article My Saved Articles Print Cambridge Analytica exploited Facebook data with style Share     The Facebook Inc. application is displayed for a photograph on an Apple Inc. iPhone in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, March 21, 2018. Facebook is struggling to respond to growing demands from Washington to explain how the personal data of millions of its users could be exploited by a consulting firm that helped Donald Trump win the presidency. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  Andrew Harrer  by It takes oodles of insouciance and ambition to exploit two global institutions in the way that Alexander Nix, chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, has done with Facebook and Cambridge university. But then they teach self-assurance at Eton College, the school he attended, in common with various UK prime ministers. Mr Nix, who was suspended from his job on Tuesday , is now persona non grata at Facebook, having exposed its lax control over 2bn users' personal data. Nor is he popular with the university whose name his company adopted and whose research informed its work on Donald Trump's election campaign. One lesson here is to beware executives with posh accents and good suits. ""It is very flattering that . . . people might see us as having these incredible powers,"" Mr Nix told parliament last month. Perhaps, but he was the conjuror of the illusion. If not Mr Nix, it would have been someone equally brazen. Once Facebook found a way to get into the minds of consumers — and voters — precisely, and Cambridge university researchers had shown how that access could be exploited, a mess was inevitable.  Alexander Nix is now persona non grata at Facebook, having exposed its lax control over 2bn users' personal data.  Chris J Ratcliffe The amount of online data available on everyone's behaviour and personality has exploded, not only on Facebook but via data brokers from Acxiom to Datatrust, Experian, Infogroup — the list goes on. Mr Nix packaged it all up nicely, with the help of Mr Trump's former aide Steve Bannon and Robert Mercer, the Trump-backing billionaire investor in Cambridge Analytica. Advertisement Related Quotes  5 years 1 Day Last updated: Last updated:   ASX Announcements   Cambridge Analytica is a lovely name for what is essentially an advertising agency, evoking disinterested academic research rather than the hyper-competitive business of persuading people to buy things or to vote for your client. In the world of big data, one person's thesis material is another's ad targeting tool. The intellectual foundation of Cambridge Analytica's work for US politicians such as Texas senator Ted Cruz was research at the Cambridge university Psychometrics Centre. There, Michal Kosinski and others found that people's psychological profiles could be identified by analysing their social media accounts, including brands they had liked on Facebook. As Prof Kosinski, who is now at Stanford, quickly realised, it was a short step from that to reverse engineering Facebook to deliver multiple ads targeted precisely on users' hopes and fears. Others realised this too, including Mr Nix's company SCL Group, which contracted Aleksandr Kogan, a lecturer in psychology at Cambridge, to collect data from Facebook users. Mr Nix claims that efforts to integrate the Kogan data into his company's own services were ""fruitless"" and so it used other sources. In any case, SCL formed a US subsidiary, named Cambridge Analytica, to offer profiling and advertising models that owe a striking amount to Cambridge university's research. The university is justifiably unhappy about the brand confusion.  Alexander Nix is not popular with the university whose name his company adopted and whose research informed its work on Donald Trump's election campaign.  Graham Barclay Meanwhile, Mr Nix made the most of Facebook. Dr Kogan obtained data with the consent of 270,000 users, who also gave the right to gather details of their friends, taking the total to 50m. Facebook has since tightened policies to prevent the latter happening. It is remarkable how easily most of us are willing to share our data in return for free services. Equally remarkable is that Facebook has little effective means of stopping the misuse of data, apart from asking those who run applications on its platform to behave well, or suspending them if it notices misbehaviour. Facebook has never implemented safeguards that match the power of the data machine it created. But Facebook is not the only data bank. The US is fertile territory for anyone with money who wants to amass the kind of personal, demographic and spending data about individuals that powers the models of Cambridge Analytica and others. Mr Nix's claim to hold between 4,000 and 5,000 data points on every American adult should be implausible, but is not. Just as pioneers flocked to San Francisco during the Gold Rush, the data rush lures the Nixes of the world. Cambridge Analytica may have broken some rules, but its legacy is to have shown the influence that can be wielded without breaking them. As Mr Nix sadly protests, many other organisations are more quietly using similar methods. Few sell them with such Old Etonian style, though. That is the trouble with advertising: it gets attention. john.gapper@ft.com        Financial Times  Share     Latest Stories   If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list.   If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list.   If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list.  latest stories end    Advertisement       Related articles        If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  pages/article/desktop/footer.jsp content/footer/footer.jsp  The 200 richest people in Australia Rich List lodge owners raise the bar at Falls Creek Cardboard king: Inside Anthony Pratt's empire The man who dresses Rich Listers' homes What the Lowys will do after Westfield  You could soon order pizza through your TV: Menulog The question that could fix bad corporate behaviour Banks face an even bigger threat than rival banks How to escape the maelstrom of leadership demands Microsoft president Brad Smith wants to save the world  Why emojis are popping up centre stage @ the NGV 5 of the most exclusive properties for sale this week Luxury treats to spend your money on this week Nura's smart-looking headphones are smarter than most Why this South Yarra hotel is the new look of luxe Special Reports Get personal finance in order before overseas posting Queensland bigwigs depart Macquarie Private Weath Integrated Portfolio Solutions unwraps new fin services IPO contender Odds on 'light touch' NEG shorten Storage a critical factor for renewables  Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Subscription Terms Digital Subscription Terms Newspaper Subscription Terms Corporate Subscriptions Contact & Feedback About us Our Events FAQ Contact us Letters to the Editor Give feedback Advertise Site Map Accessibility Markets Data Markets Overview World Equities Commodities Currencies Derivatives Interest Rates Share Tables Brands The Australian Financial Review Magazine BOSS AFR Lists Chanticleer Luxury Rear Window The Sophisticated Traveller Fairfax Network The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby Home Price Guide Weatherzone Oneflare The Store © Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Reprints & Permissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions of Use  Message for IEX users (adjust conditional comment and message according to your site's IE browser support) [if lte IE 7   Please upgrade your browser. Internet Explorer 7 is no longer supported.  In order to view and use AFR properly and more securely you will need to upgrade to any of the following supported browsers for FREE:  ,  ,  ,  ,  .  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w981]   Zuckerberg admits 'mistakes' in Cambridge Analytica scandal - Software - iTnews    [if lt IE 9]>    endif]  Latest News ZTE faces up to $2.2bn penalty Apple creates phone-to-phone augmented reality NDIA suffers extended CRM issues CBA staff sent emails to cba.com domain by mistake DHS reveals cause of child support system outage    LOG IN SUBSCRIBE   GOVERNMENT IT SECURITY FINANCE IT TELCO BENCHMARK AWARDS Search     Username: Password: Remember me Don't have an account? Register now!   Zuckerberg admits 'mistakes' in Cambridge Analytica scandal  By     on  Pledges change, including audits. Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg has admitted the social network ""made mistakes"" over the Cambridge Analytica data scandal. In his first comments since the company disclosed the misuse of personal data,  Zuckerberg said Facebook would work to ""step up"" and address its failings. He pledged to introduce changes that would make it more difficult for third-party applications to harvest Facebook user data. Zuckerberg said a ""breach of trust"" had occurred between Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. Over the weekend it was revealed that the data analytics firm had gained improper access to data on 50 million Facebook users in 2014 to profile and target them with political ads. Cambridge Analytica had collected the data through an app that asked users to undertake a personality test for research purposes. Around 270,000 people agreed to take the test, but Facebook's terms of service and API at the time allowed the firm to also collect the data of the participants' friends - or the information of more than 50 million people. Zuckerberg today admitted there had also been a breach of trust between Facebook and its users. ""I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I'm responsible for what happens on our platform,"" he said in a Facebook post . ""We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you. I've been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn't happen again."" He said the ""most important"" actions to prevent a similar reccurrence had been taken in 2014, when Facebook took measures to ""drastically reduce"" data access by third parties. The company stopped allowing apps to access the data of a person's friends without their approval, closing the loophole that Cambridge Analytica had exploited. Zuckerberg today pledged to investigate all apps that had access to large amounts of information before the 2014 changes. Facebook will also conduct a full audit of any app with suspicious activity, and ban developers that don't agree to a thorough audit and that have been found to have misused personally identifiable information, he said. The company will further restrict developers' access to data to prevent similar kinds of abuse, Zuckerberg said, and will require developers to obtain approval from a user to access their posts or other private data. ""While this specific issue involving Cambridge Analytica should no longer happen with new apps today, that doesn't change what happened in the past. We will learn from this experience to secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward,"" Zuckerberg said. ""I want to thank all of you who continue to believe in our mission and work to build this community together. I know it takes longer to fix all these issues than we'd like, but I promise you we'll work through this and build a better service over the long term.""  Got a news tip for our journalists? Share it with us anonymously here .  Copyright © iTnews.com.au . All rights reserved.  Tags: cambridge analytica facebook mark zuckerberg software   By   0 Comments  Facebook reveals 63 A/NZ users took quiz behind Cambridge Analytica scandal Facebook changes privacy controls in wake of data scandal Apple, IBM chiefs call for more data oversight after Facebook leak US lawmakers formally ask Facebook CEO to testify on user data    NAB outage caused by power cut to mainframe Windows 10 update on half of all devices in first month NSW Police buys 1000 biometric scanners for the beat NAB tackles 'hundreds' of machine learning projects   You must be a registered member of iTnews to post a comment. Log In |  Register  Managed Security Service Providers for Dummies The Cost of Cloud Expertise report The business case for hyperconvergence What Every CIO Should Know about DevOps & Container Guides by Puppet The 5G Business Potential – Industry digitalisation and the untapped opportunities for operators IPWEA NSW Emerging Technologies Conference 2018 Gartner Customer Experience & Technologies Summit 3rd Annual Design Thinking Summit 2018 Gartner Application Architecture, Development & Integration Summit 2018 2nd Australian Digital Government Summit  Most popular tech stories     Virgin Mobile to shut down in Australia, with up to 200 jobs at stake     Software supplier to Jetstar, Tigerair goes bust owing $2.6m     Court sides with Optus over Telstra, lifts injunction on 'Empires End' advertisements     Ruslan Kogan joins Atlassian founders and Harvey Norman boss on list of Australia's wealthiest IT leaders     NBN Co to introduce new low-cost wholesale options       How to recover deleted emails in Gmail     6 cloud accounting systems for Australian small businesses compared: MYOB, QuickBooks, Reckon, Saasu, Sage and Xero     7 accounting packages for Australian small businesses compared: including MYOB, QuickBooks Online, Reckon, Xero     Top 20 cloud accounting add-ons     How long will a UPS keep your computers on if the lights go out?       Top 25 fantasy games of all time     25 secret WhatsApp tricks you (probably) didn't know about     21 Facebook Messenger tricks you're (probably) not aware of     How to: Remove a device from Netflix when someone's accessing your account     How to: Send large files for free       Every main Assassin’s Creed game ranked from worst to best     Every Battlefield game ranked from worst to best     Angry about women in Battlefield V - here's five real women of WW2 you need to know about     Every Rainbow Six Siege defender ranked from optional to essential     18 pro tips from the Rainbow Six Siege world cup       2018 Australian IoT Awards: meet the finalists     Aussie smart metering company targets UK market     Telstra turns on NB-IoT network     Azure IoT helping to create food factory of the future     Top 50 IP addresses of IoT thingbot attacks revealed    Contact Us About Us Feedback Advertise Newsletter Archive Site Map RSS   © 2018 nextmedia Pty Ltd .  BIT  |   CRN Australia  |   IoT Hub  |   PC & Tech Authority  |   PC PowerPlay  All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorisation. Your use of this website  constitutes acceptance of nextmedia's Privacy Policy and  Terms & Conditions .    Don't have an account? Register now! Username / Email: Password: Remember me  [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w982]   Zuckerberg admits mistakes - but no apology Zuckerberg admits mistakes - but no apology Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement Business Companies Security Zuckerberg admits mistakes - but no apology Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size Breaking five days of silence, Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has admitted mistakes and outlined steps to protect user data in light of a privacy scandal involving a Donald Trump-connected data-mining firm. Mr Zuckerberg said Facebook had a ""responsibility"" to protect its users' data and if it failed, ""we don't deserve to serve you"". Mark Zuckerberg: ""I'm serious about doing what it takes to protect our community."" Photo: Bloomberg But Mr Zuckerberg stopped short of apologising. And he wrote ""what happened"" instead of ""what we did"", leaving Facebook one step removed from responsibility. Advertisement Richard Levick, chairman of the crisis-management firm Levick, gave Mr Zuckerberg's response a ""B-"" grade, in part because of how late it came. Mr Zuckerberg and Facebook's No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, had been quiet since news broke on Friday that Cambridge Analytica, a UK-based political research firm, may have improperly used data obtained from roughly 50 million Facebook users to try to sway elections. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Mr Zuckerberg said Facebook had already taken the most important steps to prevent such a situation from happening again. For example, in 2014, it reduced access outside apps had to user data. However, some of the measures didn't take effect until a year later, allowing Cambridge to access the data in the intervening months. But he acknowledged there was more the company needed to do, outlining three main changes: First, it would investigate all large apps that were allowed to get data not just on their own users, but on those users' friends, before Facebook changed its policies in 2014, and ban any developers who didn't agree to an audit. The company would tell affected users if it found problems. Second, it would remove developer access to data if someone hadn't used that app in three months, and reduce the type of information the app got when users signed in. Third, it would work to make sure people understood who had access to their data, showing everyone a tool at the top of the News Feed in the next month, and making it easy to revoke permissions. ""I know it takes longer to fix all these issues than we'd like, but I promise you we'll work through this and build a better service over the long term,"" Mr Zuckerberg said. Replay Authorities in Britain and the United States are investigating the alleged improper use of Facebook data by Cambridge Analytica . Facebook shares have dropped about 8 per cent, lopping more than $US46 billion off the company's market value since the revelations were first published, raising questions about whether social media sites are violating users' privacy.  Thousands of Facebook users have taken to rival platforms to announce their plans to quit the social media giant. Facebook first learned of the privacy breach more than two years ago, but hadn't mentioned it publicly until Friday. The company said it was ""building a way"" for people to know if their data was accessed by ""This Is Your Digital Life"", the psychological-profiling quiz app that researcher Aleksandr Kogan created and paid about 270,000 people to take part in. Cambridge Analytica later obtained information from the app for about 50 million Facebook users, as the app also vacuumed up data on people's friends - including those who never downloaded the app or gave explicit consent. Chris Wylie, a Cambridge co-founder who left in 2014, has said one of the firm's goals was to influence people's perceptions by injecting content, some misleading or false, all around them. It's not clear whether Facebook would be able to tell users whether they had seen such content. Cambridge has shifted the blame to Mr Kogan, which the firm described as a contractor. Mr Kogan described himself as a scapegoat. Mr Kogan, a psychology researcher at Cambridge University, told the BBC that both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica have tried to place the blame on him, even though the firm ensured him that everything he did was legal. ""One of the great mistakes I did here was I just didn't ask enough questions,"" he said. ""I had never done a commercial project. I didn't really have any reason to doubt their sincerity. That's certainly something I strongly regret now."" He said the firm paid some $US800,000 for the work, but it went to participants in the survey. ""My motivation was to get a dataset I could do research on,"" he said. ""I have never profited from this in any way personally."" Broad criticism Facebook itself is drawing criticism from politicians on both sides of the Atlantic for its alleged failure to protect users' privacy. Sandy Parakilas, who worked in data protection for Facebook in 2011 and 2012, told a UK parliamentary committee on Wednesday that the company was vigilant about its network security but lax when it came to protecting users' data. He said personal data including email addresses and in some cases private messages was allowed to leave Facebook servers with no real controls on how the data was used after that. ""The real challenge here is that Facebook was allowing developers to access the data of people who hadn't explicitly authorised that,"" he said, adding that the company had ""lost sight"" of what developers did with the data. 'Misleading' On Tuesday, the chairman of the UK parliament's media committee, Damian Collins, said his group had repeatedly asked Facebook how it used data, but company officials ""have been misleading to the committee"". The committee summoned Mr Zuckerberg to testify. Facebook sidestepped questions on whether Mr Zuckerberg would appear, saying instead that the company is currently focused on conducting its own reviews. Meanwhile, Britain's information commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said she was pursuing a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's servers. She has also asked Facebook to cease its own audit of Cambridge Analytica's data use. Ms Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica was that it acquired personal data in an unauthorised way, adding that data protection laws require services like Facebook to have strong safeguards against misuse of data. Calls to testify Leading Democrats in the US Senate also called on Mr Zuckerberg to testify. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, called Facebook's latest privacy scandal a ""danger signal"". She wants Mr Zuckerberg's assurances that Facebook was prepared to take the lead on measures to protect user privacy - or Congress might step in. AP with Bloomberg Security Facebook Mark Zuckerberg Most Viewed in Business Morning & Afternoon Newsletter Delivered Mon–Fri. Email address By signing up you accept our privacy policy and conditions of use The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times The Canberra Times WAtoday The Australian Financial Review Domain Traveller Good Food Executive Style The Store by Fairfax Drive Adzuna RSVP Essential Baby Essential Kids Weatherzone Tributes Celebrations Place your ad Commercial Real Estate Oneflare Nabo Contact & support Advertise with us Newsletters Accessibility guide Sitemap Subscription packages Subscriber benefits My account Subscriptions FAQs Today's Paper Photo sales Purchase front pages Fairfax syndication Fairfax events Fairfax careers Conditions of use Privacy policy Press Council Copyright © 2018 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w983] [if lt IE 7]> < lang=""en"" class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7""> endif] [if IE 7 < lang=""en"" class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8""> endif] [if IE 8 < lang=""en"" class=""lt-ie9""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w984] [if lte IE 9]> < lang=""en"" class=""lte-ie9""> endif] [if gt IE 9 < lang=""en"" class=""no-js""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w985] Brazil prosecutors open investigation into Cambridge Analytica react-empty: 5 Yahoo Search Search react-text: 10 News /react-text react-text: 45 Latest /react-text react-text: 48 National /react-text react-text: 51 World /react-text react-text: 54 Sunrise /react-text react-text: 57 Sunday Night /react-text react-text: 60 The Daily Edition /react-text react-text: 63 The Morning Show /react-text react-text: 66 More /react-text react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 Brazil prosecutors open investigation into Cambridge Analytica By Ricardo Brito 21March,2018 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 By Ricardo Brito BRASILIA (Reuters) - Brazilian prosecutors on Wednesday said they had opened an investigation into whether London-based political consultancy Cambridge Analytica acted illegally in Brazil, as controversy over the firm's data harvesting practices spreads across the globe. Prosecutors for Brazil's Federal District, which includes Brasilia, the capital, said in a written statement that they will look into whether the firm, through its partnership with Sao Paulo-based consulting group A Ponte Estratégia Planejamento e Pesquisa LTDA, illegally used the data of millions of Brazilians to create psychographic profiles. Calls to CA Ponte, as the partnership is called, were not answered. Prosecutors from a specialized data unit will look into whether there were security breaches that allowed the firm to illegally access personal data. Regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Europe have demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm, which worked on U.S. President Donald Trump's election campaign, gained access to data on 50 million Facebook Inc users in order to build voter profiles. Reports on Monday said that the firm may have improperly gained access to the data, and Cambridge Analytica has since suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix, while Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said his company made mistakes in its handling of user data. By many measures, Brazil is Facebook's third largest market. (Reporting by Ricardo Brito; Writing by Gram Slattery; Editing by Leslie Adler and James Dalgleish) react-empty: 2 What to read next Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be HuffPost Yahoo7 News HuffPost Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 Be react-empty: 62 react-empty: 65 react-empty: 66 bf1-sdarlaws-021.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 03:56:35 UTC 2018 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w986] RUSH HOUR: Federer tennis ball comment baffles fans all.esi prod 2018-05-25T00:17:02.584Z 703ff80507f8456f2956abee01e931a1c995e827 url empty ?: 0 ID: 600a2ff07e64282af9baf6da3a9a09de ID_Type: CAPIID Is mobile: false 2018-03-28T02:39:59.047Z fb8a924b1ea7aa468da673a663c420e3cb3d2368 adobe pixel not fired end of all.esi Skip to: Main Content Site Navigation Site footer Site site-search Site Map Network Navigation (other sites) Hipages Fox Sports SEEK Carsales RealEstate News Network News.com.au News.com.au National World Lifestyle Travel Entertainment Technology Finance Sport Facebook Twitter Instagram GooglePlus Search Latest In National Drink-driving killer breaks down in court Stab ‘rampage’ grandson under guard Trendy diets ‘cause paleo casualties’ Cheeky cocky caught on traffic cam One Nation senator refuses to resign How to get paid while on holiday Bail granted in circus rape case Fury over review into beloved road rule rush hour RUSH HOUR: People can’t agree on what colour tennis balls are Order Stories By: Most Recent Oldest See: All Photos Only Videos Only Text Only Auto Refresh Off On Video Image Can you Debunk These Epic Tricks and Illusions? Credit - Various via Storyful It doesn’t take much to fool the untrained eye, and these magic tricks and optical illusions are no exception. From unbelievable card tricks, to impossible disappearances and jaw-dropping optical illusions, believe that these Houdinis will be pulling more than a rabbit out of a hat. Credit: Various via Storyful August 9th 2017 10 months ago /display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Network News/National/ What colour are these tennis balls? Picture: Michael Dodge/Getty Images Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Share on Reddit Email a friend 8:35am Monkey with ‘human face’ breaks internet A monkey with a human face has broken the internet with its incredible expressions. Amazing footage shows the concerned-looking primate at a zoo in China looking remarkably like a distressed man. The cute clip has gone viral in China, where the adorable ape lives in a zoo in the North East of the country. Incredulous web users point out that the primate’s eyes and mouth share an uncanny resemblance to those of a human. The video has already been viewed more than 1.3 million times since it was uploaded on Chinese social media network Weibo earlier today. Internet users joked whether a human had actually dressed up as a monkey to imitate an ape. One user asked: “Are you sure this is not the zoo keeper?” Songliudixiaomeng added: “Its eyes are trying to tell us something, don’t you think?” And another astounded user commented: “It’s the expression that makes me laugh! It looks lost!” –Read more. Share END BLOCK POS 1 8:10am Facebook boss breaks silence amid crisis Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has finally commented on the growing crisis that has wiped tens of billions from the company’s share price. Politicians in the US and UK have called for answers about what the social media giant knew about how personal data was being shared. The 33-year-old, who was once speculated about as a presidential candidate in the making, had gone to ground despite calls for him to face inquiries in person on both sides of the Atlantic. The demand for answers comes after a whistleblower claimed Cambridge Analytica used data harvested from up to 50 million profiles to determine voter preferences. But in a Facebook post this morning, Mr Zuckerberg finally addressed the issue and outlined the measures the social media giant has taken. “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” he posted. “I’ve been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn’t happen again. The good news is that the most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago. But we also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.” Mr Zuckerberg also vowed that Facebook will “investigate” all apps that have access to large amounts of data and to restrict developers’ data access. —Victoria Craw and Debra Killalea, read more . Share END BLOCK POS 2 7:45am Shocking new footage of Miami bridge collapse A heart-stopping video taken on the dashcam of a car captured the moment the Miami bridge collapsed on top of traffic last week. In the footage a man can be seen walking on the top left corner of the bridge and just seconds later the bridge collapses and he is thrown into the air before disappearing into the rubble. Several drivers can be seen getting out of their car and rushing towards the bridge to help those caught in the collapse. Six people were killed, with hundreds of Florida International University students gathering for a vigil Wednesday morning for the victims. Share END BLOCK POS 3 7:20am Mohamed Noor in court over Justine Damond death The former police officer accused of fatally shooting Australian woman Justine Ruszczyk Damond outside her Minneapolis home last year has made his first court appearance. Bail for Mohamed Noor has been cut from $500,000 to $400,000 just a day after he was charged with third-degree murder and second degree manslaughter. Noor is accused of shooting the 40-year-old woman on July 15, just on moments after she called the police to report a possible sexual assault behind her house. Noor didn’t speak except to give his name and address, and didn’t enter a plea. His next court date is May 8 at 8.30am. Share END BLOCK POS 4 6:55am NSW man to be jailed for car park murder A Sydney man is due to be sentenced for murdering a father-of-two who was lured into an underground car park to discuss a $2000 debt. Diego Carbone, 26, was found guilty last October of murdering Bradley Dillon, 25, who was shot and stabbed after being lured to a Leichhardt car park on August 11, 2014. The NSW Supreme Court jury was told Mr Dillon had been chasing repayment of $2000 his sister lent to a member of the Saint Michael Fight Club. Carbone was previously a member of the boxing and martial arts club. His cousin, kickboxer Antonio Bagnato, fled the country soon after the murder and is suspected of carrying it out with Carbone. Bagnato is on death row in Thailand after being found guilty of murdering Sydney underworld figure and Hells Angels bikie Wayne Schneider in a villa, south of Bangkok, in November 2015. Nadine Dillon told Carbone’s sentence hearing her “heart and soul” were ripped out by the senseless murder of her partner, while the victim’s mother described the crime as spineless and cowardly. Carbone is due to be sentenced by Acting Justice Jane Mathews in the Supreme Court on Thursday. —AAP Share END BLOCK POS 5 6:35am Federer comment baffles fans What colour are tennis balls? It is a question that should have a simple answer but it has caused a massive debate online as people just can’t seem to agree. The question has caused so much discussion that even the world’s top male tennis player has weighed in. In a video that has been viewed nearly 370,000 times, the question of the true colour of tennis balls was posed to Roger Federer. “They’re yellow, right?” he said, with slight uncertainty. He then repeated more confidently, “They’re yellow!” For some people Federer’s answer was enough to settle the debate. “I would have said green but I think we have to all agree on yellow now,” one Twitter user wrote. Another said: “What Roger says must go” But for others the tennis pro’s answer did nothing to change their mind. “Tennis balls are green. Why is this a question. Roger Federer is wrong,” another person said. “How can you play tennis all your life and think tennis balls are yellow,” one person wrote. What colour do you see? OKAY ITS OFFICIAL MY DAD JUST ASKED @rogerfederer IF TENNIS BALLS ARE YELLOW OR GREEN AND HE SAID THEY ARE YELLOW pic.twitter.com/EXdXRr0oFa — Delaney Dold (@delaneyanndold) 19 March 2018 Share END BLOCK POS 6 6:10am More wet weather for NSW Already rain-soaked parts of NSW are expected to receive more heavy downpours causing flooding across the Hunter and Mid North Coast. Four vehicles were pulled from floodwaters in the Hunter Region on Wednesday, according to the State Emergency Service, which responded to almost 400 emergency calls. A severe weather warning remains in place for the Hunter, Mid North Coast and the Northern Tablelands. Residents of Dungog, where three people died in the 2015 floods, have been issued with warnings, an SES spokesman told AAP. The small town is a “magnet” for this type of weather, bureau meteorologist Ashleigh Lange said. The heavy rain is forecast to move north as far as Coffs Harbour before easing on Friday, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Flash flooding is possible while gusty winds are also likely to create hazardous surf conditions. Those driving are encouraged to slow down, take extra care and avoid driving in floodwaters. —AAP Severe Weather Warning still current for parts of the NSW coast today, with some areas having already received well over 100mm of rain in 24 hours. See https://t.co/XfYRx8EqDM for all the current warnings. pic.twitter.com/O98VVnMoAB — Bureau of Meteorology, New South Wales (@BOM_NSW) 21 March 2018 Share END BLOCK POS 7 5:45am Two dead in Whitsundays helicopter crash Two people were killed in a helicopter crash off Hamilton Island on Monday afternoon. Five people were on board the helicopter when it crashed into the water just off the Hardy Reef pontoon on the Great Barrier Reef, with ambulance services receiving a call about the accident at around 4.15pm. Witnesses to the crash were able to help save two passengers and the pilot, and performed CPR on the two other passengers at the instruction of paramedics over the phone while they waited for emergency services to arrive. Unfortunately the critically injured man and women were not able to be saved. The other people, two men and a woman, were transported by sea for medical attention with non-life threatening injuries. “We are extremely saddened by this incident and our deepest condolences are with the families of all of the passengers,” Whitsunday Air Services said in a statement. “(We) will be suspending all operations while a full review process is undertaken. Further information will be released in due course.” Share END BLOCK POS 8 END MAIN CONTENT Monkey with ‘human face’ breaks internet Facebook boss breaks silence amid crisis Shocking new footage of Miami bridge collapse Mohamed Noor in court over Justine Ruszczyk death NSW man to be jailed for car park murder Federer comment baffles fans More wet weather for NSW Two dead in Whitsundays helicopter crash Load more updates Jump back to top In Summary Key Updates Monkey with ‘human face’ breaks internet Facebook boss breaks silence amid crisis Shocking new footage of Miami bridge collapse Mohamed Noor in court over Justine Ruszczyk death NSW man to be jailed for car park murder Federer comment baffles fans More wet weather for NSW Two dead in Whitsundays helicopter crash A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out. News.com.au Newsletter RSS Advertise About Us Legal: Privacy Policy Relevant Ads Opt-Out Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions News Limited Copyright © 2018. All times AEDT (GMT +11). "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w987] [if lt IE 7]> < class=""coolum-news rnn-au no-js non-staff-user non-authenticated-user non-subscribed-user no-facebook-api ie6 oldie"" lang=""en""> endif] [if IE 7 < class=""coolum-news rnn-au no-js non-staff-user non-authenticated-user non-subscribed-user no-facebook-api ie7 oldie"" lang=""en""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""coolum-news rnn-au no-js non-staff-user non-authenticated-user non-subscribed-user no-facebook-api ie8 oldie"" lang=""en""> endif] [if IE 9 < class=""coolum-news rnn-au no-js non-staff-user non-authenticated-user non-subscribed-user no-facebook-api ie9"" lang=""en""> endif] Zuckerberg breaks his silence amid Facebook crisis | Coolum & North Shore News  Skip to site map   Login  My Profile Update Details My Subscription   My Notifications   My Events Admin Site Logout     News Sport What's On Lifestyle Jobs Motoring Real Estate Obituaries Classifieds       Coolum Beach   Marcoola   Marcus Beach   Mudjimba   North Shore   Peregian Beach   Peregian Springs   Yaroomba   Twin Waters   Peregian Beach South  News  Local  National  World  Offbeat  Sport  Local Sport  National Sport  Horse Racing  NRL  AFL  Rugby Union  Cricket  Soccer  Netball  Golf  Lifestyle  Easy Eating  Home & Style  Gardening  Travel  Entertainment  Fashion  Smarter Shopping  Health  Parenting  Dating  Photos  Buy Photos  Video  Find your local  Search by keyword  Search by location  Search by category  Add Your Business  What's On  Events  Place an Event  Gigs  Competitions  Jobs  Jobs News  Find a Job  Special Reports  Post a job  Motoring  Motoring News  Big Rigs  Real Estate  Real Estate News  Search Buy  Search Rent  Tools & Calculators  Home Loans  Property Guide  Classifieds  Real Estate  Jobs  Motoring  Buy & Sell  Notices  Trades & Services  Personals  All Classifieds  Stud Cattle Directory  The Guide Coolum   cxenseparse_start News Zuckerberg breaks his silence amid Facebook crisis  "	UPDATE: FACEBOOK founder Mark Zuckerberg has finally commented on the growing crisis that has wiped tens of billions from the company's share price. 	Politicians in the US and UK have called for answers about what the social media giant knew about how personal data was being shared. 	"The 33-year-old, who was once speculated about as a presidential candidate in the making, had gone to ground despite calls for him to face inquiries in person on both sides of the Atlantic. "	It comes after a whistleblower claimed Cambridge Analytica  used data harvested from up to 50 million profiles to determine voter preferences . 	"But in a Facebook post this morning, Mr Zuckerberg has addressed the issue and the measures Facebook has taken. "	"We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you, he posted. "	"I've been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn't happen again. The good news is that the most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago. But we also made mistakes, there's more to do, and we need to step up and do it. "	EARLIER: IT'S the billion dollar question on everyone's lips: Where on earth is Mark Zuckerberg? 	The Facebook CEO and founder is yet to comment on the growing crisis that has wiped tens of billions from the company's share price as politicians in the US and UK call for answers about what the social media giant knew about how personal data was being shared. 	"The 33-year-old, who was once speculated about as a presidential candidate in the making, has gone to ground despite calls for him to face inquiries in person on both sides of the Atlantic. "	It comes after a whistleblower claimed Cambridge Analytica used data harvested from up to 50 million profiles to determine voter preferences . Axios reports the Facebook CEO will break his silence in the next 24 hours on the subject that has led to calls for users to delete the social network. 	"The website claims Mr Zuckerberg's comments will be aimed at ""rebuilding trust"" and he has been speaking with engineers behind the scenes about what can be done to make the site more secure and reassure users their data is in safe hands.  "	  	"On Wednesday, former Facebook platform operations manager Sandy Parakilas told UK MPs the company was blase about third party developers accessing user information prior to 2014 when it changed the Friends Permission features. "	"When asked if CEO Mark Zuckerberg was aware of a presentation he gave outlining his concerns to privacy executives, he said: ""I think it was well understood both internally and externally there was risk with respect to the way Facebook platform was handling data. "	I don't think it was a secret that this was a problem. 	"Mr Parakilas said the company attitude to data gathering could be described as the ""wild west"" and the unofficial motto was ""move fast and break things"" in the quest for new users. "	"Most of the goals of the company were around growth in the number of people who use the service, he said. ""Some of the most popular apps had hundreds of millions of users. I believe that some of those apps were asking Friends Permission so there was a huge amount of data being pulled from Facebook as a result. It was concerning to me."" "	"It comes as the #DeleteFacebook movement is backed by Brian Acton, the co-founder of messaging service WhatsApp that Facebook bought in 2014. "	"It is time. #deletefacebook, he tweeted. ""Delete and forget. Now's the time to care about privacy."" It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 It is time. Delete. Forget it. Now's the time to care about privacy. Here, at Signal, we're holding an Awareness-rising event. Ethereum is promoted as a curr ...  "	"Meanwhile a slew of stories instructing users on how to delete their profile or turn off certain features have appeared, with many noting deleting an account is not as simple as it sounds . "	"Early investor, Roger McNamee, told the US National Public Radio the site was losing trust. "	"The issue is a callous disregard for the privacy rights of users and a lack of care with respect to data that had been entrusted to Facebook, he said. "	  	"I'm not sure exactly what's going on here, but I'm afraid there is a systemic problem with the algorithms and the business model of Facebook that allow bad actors to cause harm to innocent users of Facebook. "	"The data scandal follows a crisis over ""fake news"" spread during recent elections and concerns that Facebook and other social media apps are bad for mental health. Last November former Facebook President Sean Parker said the site is putting children's mental health at risk by "" exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology "". "	   	Meanwhile the Cambridge University researcher who developed an app used by Cambridge Analytica to harvest data from millions of Facebook users claims he has been made a scapegoat during the ordeal. 	"Alexandr Kogan told the BBC he believed all the information he provided was obtained legitimately. He said he was approached by Cambridge Analytica, which is being investigated by British and US authorities for possible misuse of data. "	"He said: ""They approached me. In terms of the usage of Facebook data they wrote the terms of service for the app, they provided the legal advice that this was all appropriate."" "	Kogan admitted he did not ask enough questions about the data use and did not have a lawyer review the agreement. 	"Cambridge Analytica has suspended its top executive as possible misuse of data is checked. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have denied any wrongdoing. - With wires. Related Items   cxenseparse_end     Read More  Login to follow   Read More  Login to follow   Read More  Login to follow   Read More  Login to follow   Read More  Login to follow   Read More  Login to follow collection data editors picks facebook general-seniors-news scandal     Just In  Bride accused of ‘stingy’ wedding reception 2nd Jun 2018 1:00 PM  The most terrifying movie of the past decade 2nd Jun 2018 12:30 PM  Italy’s World Cup embarrassment gets worse 2nd Jun 2018 12:00 PM  Teen hospitalised after six-metre fall in motorcycle crash 2nd Jun 2018 11:11 AM    Top Stories   ‘I can’t believe it’: Shopper slams Coles     A NUTRITIONIST has posted an eye-opening video exposing one of the big supermarkets’ marketing tricks, saying: “No wonder we have an obesity epidemic.”      Toxic smoke bomb explosion forces Qld resort evacuation     Nine people exposed to toxic smoke in beachside resort     Paraplegic motorcross champion determined to ride again     The biking prodigy is recovering from his tumble on the world stage     Surf club changes dress code over sexism complaints     Before, the club allowed only women to wear singlets at the venue.     Local Partners     © Sunshine Coast Newspaper Company Pty Ltd 2018. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty. News Corp Australia Group Websites Need Help? Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing. Coolum & North Shore News Coolum News National News World News Sport Lifestyle Dating Travel Business Property Coolum Weather Newspapers in Education What's On Entertainment Events Place an event Competitions Classifieds Jobs in Coolum Cars for Sale in Coolum Property listings in Coolum Bargains for Sale in Coolum Obituaries in Sunshine Coast Region Personals in Sunshine Coast Region Notices in Sunshine Coast Region Coolum Trades and Services Air Conditioning Builders Carpet Cleaners Concreters Electricians Gardeners Handyman Painters Plumbers All Services About Coolum & North Shore News Contact Us More ways to get Coolum & North Shore News news Photo Sales Letters to the Editor News Media Digital Advertising ARM Digital Marketing Solutions Group Sites Privacy Policy Terms of Use  × Login Copyright 1996-2011 Adobe, Inc. All Rights Reserved More info available at http://www.omniture.com /DO NOT REMOVE/ End SiteCatalyst code version: H.22.1. [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w988]   I've never joined Facebook and now I'm feeling pretty good I've never joined Facebook and now I'm feeling pretty good Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement Opinion Business The economy Facebook I've never joined Facebook and now I'm feeling pretty good By Matt Wade Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size It’s a testament to the success of Facebook that people the world over think it's more pervasive than it really is. A recent 38-nation poll by Ipsos found respondents from every country in the survey significantly overestimated the proportion of their population with Facebook accounts. The hidden costs are becoming apparent. Photo: ap In Australia the average guess was that 77 per cent of those aged over 13 years were on Facebook while the actual share at the time was 59 per cent. I’m among the minority without a Facebook account. That’s very unusual for a journalist but, so far, I have not been persuaded the benefits of signing up outweigh the costs. What bothers me most about Facebook is the way it exploits family, friendship and other personal connections to make money. The firm’s business model has been to “monetise” that kind of private information. Advertisement Many aspects of life have become more commercialised in recent years but that seemed to take the trend further. My reaction was not to let a big American tech firm intrude so directly in my personal networks. Replay To me, Facebook’s approach smacks of the ""network marketing"" operations like Avon or Amway I encountered growing up in suburban Sydney. Those schemes relied on local “distributors” making use of their personal friendship networks for business. Just as my mum would often turn down invitations to Tupperware parties, I’ve chosen not to let Facebook profit from my web of friendships. That Amway-like business model isn’t my only problem. As you might expect from a Herald journalist, I think the news media plays a vital role in our society and especially our democracy. But Facebook (and other big tech platforms) have found ways to benefit from the news and analysis provided by traditional media outlets without giving all that much in return. For me, that seemed like another good reason to stay away. There have been real downsides in my decision not to use Facebook. It is a very convenient way to stay in touch with people, especially those living far away. Facebook is a rich source of useful information (and photographs) – something attractive to journalists. It can also be a place to raise and debate new ideas. Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix leaves the offices in central London after he was suspended. Photo: AP But I have been surprised by how unconcerned many Facebook users seemed to be about sharing their personal information on the platform even though that information was making Facebook so valuable, and powerful. Over time the hidden costs are becoming apparent. During the 2016 US election Facebook failed to prevent a deluge of false and misleading information being distributed on its platform with far reaching consequences. And now there are reports Cambridge Analytica, a firm that worked for Donald Trump’s election campaign, was able to harvest data on 50 million Facebook users without their permission including their identities, locations, their network of friends and interests. I’ve often had doubts about my Facebook boycott and it’s possible the crisis now engulfing the firm will result in changes that mean I’m willing will sign up. But right now I’m feeling pretty good about my decision to give Facebook a miss. After all, there’s plenty of other ways to stay in touch. License this article Facebook Opinion Matt Wade Matt is a senior writer for The Sydney Morning Herald. Most Viewed in Business Morning & Afternoon Newsletter Delivered Mon–Fri. Email address By signing up you accept our privacy policy and conditions of use The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times The Canberra Times WAtoday The Australian Financial Review Domain Traveller Good Food Executive Style The Store by Fairfax Drive Adzuna RSVP Essential Baby Essential Kids Weatherzone Tributes Celebrations Place your ad Commercial Real Estate Oneflare Nabo Contact & support Advertise with us Newsletters Accessibility guide Sitemap Subscription packages Subscriber benefits My account Subscriptions FAQs Today's Paper Photo sales Purchase front pages Fairfax syndication Fairfax events Fairfax careers Conditions of use Privacy policy Press Council Copyright © 2018 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w989] India warns against social media data misuse ahead of elections react-empty: 5 Yahoo Search Search react-text: 10 News /react-text react-text: 45 Latest /react-text react-text: 48 National /react-text react-text: 51 World /react-text react-text: 54 Sunrise /react-text react-text: 57 Sunday Night /react-text react-text: 60 The Daily Edition /react-text react-text: 63 The Morning Show /react-text react-text: 66 More /react-text react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 India warns against social media data misuse ahead of elections 21March,2018 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 FILE PHOTO: A figurine is seen in front of the Facebook logo in this illustration taken, March 20, 2018. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/File Photo NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's information technology minister on Wednesday warned against any abuse of social media in elections, following reports that a British consultancy improperly accessed information on millions of Facebook users to target U.S. voters. India is due to hold a national election in 2019 and several states will elect new assemblies this year and next. ""Abuse of social media including Facebook cannot be allowed to impact the fairness of elections,"" Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters. ""In the wake of recent data theft from Facebook, let my stern warning be heard across the Atlantic, far away in California. Any covert or overt attempt to misuse social media including Facebook to influence India's electoral process through undesirable means will neither be tolerated, nor be permitted."" Facebook said Prasad had raised several important questions and the company appreciates his attention to this matter. ""We will continue to engage with the government on this matter. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect peoples' information and will take whatever steps are required that this happens,"" the company said in a statement. British consultancy Cambridge Analytica has denied media accusations that it improperly accessed millions of Facebook users' information and said it deleted the data after learning that it did not adhere to data protection rules. Facebook has said it has tightened its controls on such practices since it discovered the alleged abuses by Cambridge Analytica in 2015. (Reporting by Krishna N. Das; Editing by Sanjeev Miglani and Nick Macfie) react-empty: 2 What to read next Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 News Yahoo7 Be HuffPost Yahoo7 News HuffPost Yahoo7 Be Yahoo7 Be react-empty: 62 react-empty: 65 react-empty: 66 bf1-sdarlaws-025.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 03:56:48 UTC 2018 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w990] [if lte IE 7]>< class=""ie7 lte8 lte9 "" lang=""en-au""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""ie8 lte8 lte9 "" lang=""en-au""> endif] [if IE 9 < class=""ie9 lte9 "" lang=""en-au""> endif] desktop pages/base/base.jsp pages/base/desktop.jsp pages/base/desktop/head.jsp Greens demand ACCC action over Facebook breach | afr.com Digital Data Script Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager [if IE endif] Always force IE to render in the most recent mode pages/article/desktop/body.jsp Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Help using this website - Accessibility statement Financial Review - afrrr.com Menu Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design All News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports Rear Window Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Gambling Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters to the Editor Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Leadership Management Careers Company Culture Innovation Entrepreneur Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars, Bikes & Boats Health Home Design The Australian Financial Review Magazine Luxury The Sophisticated Traveller SEARCH BAR Toggle the AFR search box Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search  SEARCH BAR END Close menu SEARCH BAR Search AFR Submit your search Reset your search  SEARCH BAR END Home News Politics Policy Economy World Special Reports RBA Interview Series Investigations Business Banking & Finance Mining Energy Telecommunications Retail Transport Media & Marketing Accounting Legal Small Business Insurance Infrastructure Health Construction Tourism Manufacturing Agriculture Environmental Services Sport Markets Equity Markets Debt Markets Currencies Commodities Derivatives Market Data Street Talk Real Estate Commercial Residential Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Technology Mobiles & Tablets Gadgets Apps Web Social Media Gaming Cloud Computing Enterprise IT Technology Companies Personal Finance Shares Managed Funds Fixed Income Trusts Banking Budgeting Tax Insurance Specialist Investments Superannuation & SMSFs Portfolio Management Leadership Management Careers Innovation Entrepreneur Workplace AFR Lists Boss Lifestyle Travel Food & Wine Fashion Watches & Jewellery Arts & Entertainment Cars Bikes & Boats Health Home Design Markets Data   My Saved Articles Done Select All Remove <li>  <a href=""#all"">  All  </a>  </li>  News  <li>  <a href=""#topic"">  Topic  </a>  </li>  <li>  <a href=""#asx"">  ASX  </a>  </li>  <li>  <a href=""#people"">  People  </a>  </li> <div id=""all"" class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> <div id=""topic"" class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> <div class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> <div id=""people"" class=""tab__panel"">  <ul class=""results__list"">  <li>under construction</li>  </ul> </div> My Saved Searches Done Select all Delete  Home News pages/article/desktop/content.jsp   Mar 21 2018 at 10:00 PM         Updated Mar 21 2018 at 10:00 PM          Save article My Saved Articles Print License article Greens demand ACCC action over Facebook breach Share     Greens digital rights spokesman Jordon Steele-John wants action from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.  Lukas Coch     by Digital rights and privacy campaigners have called for regulatory action to better protect social media users as the Greens ramp up pressure on the major parties over contracts with Donald Trump-linked data firm Cambridge Analytica . A day after Information Commissioner Timothy Pilgrim demanded answers from Facebook about the harvesting of information relating to 50 million Facebook profiles and how if affected Australian users, there appeared little appetite from the federal government for a regulatory crackdown to protect user's data. Communications Minister Mitch Fifield said the government needed to keep laws governing online activity, copyright and business practice under ""constant review"". ""Obviously what we have seen reported oversees is of concern,"" he said.  Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix has been stood down.  Chris J Ratcliffe ""I think with the internet as a whole and with social media organisations there probably has been, over time, a bit of an attitude that these are in some ways ungoverned spaces. Advertisement Related Quotes  5 years 1 Day Last updated: Last updated:   ASX Announcements   ""I think the community view, the view of governments around the world is the ordinary rules of human interaction and the ordinary business norms and laws should apply in these areas."" Adjunct Professor of Law and National Justice Project principal solicitor George Newhouse said Australians had no constitutional right to privacy and uncertainty remained about whether a common law right to privacy existed. ""The European Convention on Human Rights created real rights to privacy. Europeans see privacy as a human right, including the right to be forgotten from the internet. We don't have an equivalent here,"" he said. ""I don't understand why we don't show more concern about the daily invasion of our privacy and the harvesting and sale of our data. Australians seem to accept that our governments and our businesses can freely collect and use our information."" Be vigilant online Professor Newhouse said there was no pressure on the government to make changes to protect privacy. ""It is in their own self-interest not to. There's a lot of hard work in building a consensus, and much controversy involved, to tighten up our privacy laws and there are a lot of vested interests that don't want to see governments do that,"" he said. Cambridge Analytica boss Alexander Nix was stood down over the growing international controversy on Wednesday, while a British parliamentary committee summoned Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to answer questions. Opposition Leader Bill Shorten warned Australians to be vigilant about their social media accounts. ""The internet is a marvellous thing, but it can also have a real downside and the idea that you can have ruthless conservative political operatives invading people's privacy to manipulate elections and outcomes is outrageous,"" he said. ""[Facebook] should be a way where individuals can communicate with their family and friends... but it shouldn't be a source of inviting corporate manipulation into people's households through the sort of trap door of your Facebook account."" The Greens used a motion in the Senate to call on all Australian political parties to detail their involvement with Cambridge Analytica and parent corporation SCL, including whether they had handed over any government or electoral roll data. Digital rights spokesman Jordon Steele-John wants the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to consider the collection and use of personal information for political advertising as part of the ongoing public inquiry into the impact of digital platforms on media and advertising markets in Australia. Terms of reference for the inquiry, established by Treasurer Scott Morrison in December, don't currently include Facebook's use of data for political activity. ""There is need for ongoing review of privacy regulations in Australia, including the collection, storage, and use of personal information by government, corporations, and other entities,"" Senator Steele-John said. Mr Pilgrim has flagged further regulatory action could be needed against Facebook.     Share     Latest Stories   If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list.   If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list.   If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list.  latest stories end    Advertisement       Related articles        If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  If Asset's byline is not empty, show byline. Otherwise show related author list. Contains:  pages/article/desktop/footer.jsp content/footer/footer.jsp  The 200 richest people in Australia Rich List lodge owners raise the bar at Falls Creek Cardboard king: Inside Anthony Pratt's empire The man who dresses Rich Listers' homes What the Lowys will do after Westfield  You could soon order pizza through your TV: Menulog The question that could fix bad corporate behaviour Banks face an even bigger threat than rival banks How to escape the maelstrom of leadership demands Microsoft president Brad Smith wants to save the world  Why emojis are popping up centre stage @ the NGV 5 of the most exclusive properties for sale this week Luxury treats to spend your money on this week Nura's smart-looking headphones are smarter than most Why this South Yarra hotel is the new look of luxe Special Reports Get personal finance in order before overseas posting Queensland bigwigs depart Macquarie Private Weath Integrated Portfolio Solutions unwraps new fin services IPO contender Odds on 'light touch' NEG shorten Storage a critical factor for renewables  Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Subscription Terms Digital Subscription Terms Newspaper Subscription Terms Corporate Subscriptions Contact & Feedback About us Our Events FAQ Contact us Letters to the Editor Give feedback Advertise Site Map Accessibility Markets Data Markets Overview World Equities Commodities Currencies Derivatives Interest Rates Share Tables Brands The Australian Financial Review Magazine BOSS AFR Lists Chanticleer Luxury Rear Window The Sophisticated Traveller Fairfax Network The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby Home Price Guide Weatherzone Oneflare The Store © Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Reprints & Permissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions of Use  Message for IEX users (adjust conditional comment and message according to your site's IE browser support) [if lte IE 7   Please upgrade your browser. Internet Explorer 7 is no longer supported.  In order to view and use AFR properly and more securely you will need to upgrade to any of the following supported browsers for FREE:  ,  ,  ,  ,  .  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w991] A Facebook investor decided to 'quarantine' the company amid the Cambridge Analytica data scandal | Business Insider  Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Telaria Telaria   Technology & Business Business Insider Gizmodo Kotaku Lifehacker Lifestyle & Shopping POPSUGAR ShopStyle Who What Wear Byrdie MyDomaine Kin Community          Search Icon A magnifying glass icon. Tech Insider Money & Markets Briefing Ideas Executive Life Video Globe Icon An icon of the world globe.  Edition AUS Edition Business Insider US Business Insider UK Business Insider Deutschland Business Insider España Business Insider France Business Insider India Business Insider Italy Business Insider Japan Business Insider Malaysia Business Insider Nederland Business Insider Nordic Business Insider Polska Business Insider Singapore Business Insider South Africa 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w992] [if IEMobile 7]>< class=""no-js ie iem7 medium"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if lte IE 6 < class=""no-js ie lt-ie10 lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7 no-responsive medium"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if (IE 7)&(!IEMobile) < class=""no-js ie lt-ie10 lt-ie9 lt-ie8 no-responsive medium"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""no-js ie ie-8 lt-ie9 lt-ie10 no-responsive medium"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if IE 9 < class=""no-js ie ie-9 lt-ie10 medium"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr""> endif] [if (gt IE 9)|(gt IEMobile 7) < class=""no-js ie medium"" lang=""en"" dir=""ltr"" prefix=""fb: http://ogp.me/ns/fb# og: http://ogp.me/ns# article: http://ogp.me/ns/article# book: http://ogp.me/ns/book# profile: http://ogp.me/ns/profile# video: http://ogp.me/ns/video# product: http://ogp.me/ns/product#""> endif] Stocks shrug off Fed's interest rate rise but await Trump's tariffs | The National Business Review      [if IE  endif] [if IE  endif]   [if (gte IE 6)&(lte IE 8)  endif] [if (gte IE 6)&(lte IE 8)  endif] [if (gte IE 6)&(lte IE 8)  endif] [if (gte IE 6)&(lte IE 8) "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w993]   [if lt IE 7]> < class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7"" lang=""""> endif] [if IE 7 < class=""lt-ie9 lt-ie8"" lang=""""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""lt-ie9"" lang=""""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w994]  India takes down local website of Cambridge Analytica - BBC News   [if IE]> endif] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst  Begin iStats 20100118 (UX-CMC 1.1009.3) End iStats (UX-CMC) [if (lt IE 9) & (!IEMobile) if (IE 8)  endif if (IE 7)  endif if (IE 6)  endif endif]  Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help   BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC  Styling hook for shared modules only [if lt IE 9    endif]  BBC News Navigation                     India takes down local website of Cambridge Analytica 21 March 2018      Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-india-43482391 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window  Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal  India has taken down the local website of Cambridge Analytica following allegations the company used personal data of 50 million Facebook members to influence the US presidential election. SCL India, a venture between the SCL group in London and Ovleno Business Intelligence, says both India's major political parties are its clients. The company has no charges against it. Facebook would also face ""tough action"" if it was found to have misused Indians' data, the IT minister warned. Both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and main opposition Congress deny links with SCL India but have accused one another of utilising the services of the company. Cambridge Analytica has also consistently denied any wrongdoing and most recently suspended its boss Alexander Nix, after footage by Britain's Channel 4 News showed him appearing to suggest tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online. Amrish Tyagi, the head of SCL India, in a 2016 interview with a regional channel, spoke about his involvement with Mr Trump's presidential campaign. Mr Tyagi told the BBC that he could not comment on the controversy, but said the removal of Mr Nix would pave the way for a ""fair investigation"". What do the parties say? On Wednesday, India's law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, said there were ""numerous reports"" of Congress involvement with Cambridge Analytica and called upon its leader Rahul Gandhi to ""explain"" the company's role in his social media outreach. Digital India: Did Modi get it wrong in Silicon Valley? How to protect your Facebook data Facebook's biggest challenge yet Mr Prasad also issued a public warning to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, saying that Facebook was welcome in India but: ""If data theft of Indians is done through the collusion of the Facebook system, it shall not be tolerated. We have got stringent power in the IT Act, we shall use it, including summoning you in India."" The Congress, for its part, hit back saying that it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who used the firm and not them. These claims appear to be backed by Himanshu Sharma, the vice president of SCL India, who says on his publicly available LinkedIn profile that the company has ""successfully managed four election campaigns for the BJP "" and among them names the 2014 general election which swept Prime Minister Narendra Modi to power. Earlier on Tuesday, the head of the BJP's social media unit Amit Malviya told the BBC that the party had ""not heard of SCL Group or Amrish Tyagi so there is no question of us working with them."" Congress social media strategist Divya Spandana said they had never used SCL or any of its affiliate companies as it has its own data analytical team. What does SCL India do? SCL India claims it has 300 permanent employees and more than 1,400 consulting staff in offices across 10 Indian states. It offers a range of services in India, among them ""political campaign management"" which includes social media strategy, election campaign management and mobile media management. Under social media strategy it offers services such as ""blogger and influence marketing"", ""online reputation management"" and ""daily management of social media accounts"". What exactly is the problem? Jagdeep Chhokar, the head of the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a non-governmental organisation that works in the area of electoral and political reforms, told the BBC that while political parties were required to include expenses on social media campaigns as part of a sworn affidavit to be submitted after every election, it was unclear how many of them were doing that. ""As far as the question of political parties' payment to data companies is concerned it should indeed be declared properly in the sworn affidavits but there is no proper authority to implement it,"" he added. Furthermore, even if SCL India were running a similar campaign to that alleged in the US, it is unclear how much of that activity would even be considered illegal in India. Speaking to the BBC, Smriti Parsheera, a technology policy researcher at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in Delhi, said that the current law as laid down in the Information Technology Act, 2000, provides for compensation for losses caused due to inadequate protection of ""sensitive personal data"". Ms Parsheera said that the law goes on to define sensitive data to mean information such as passwords, financial information, health conditions and biometric information. ""The problem with the current framework lies in both the narrow scope of the protections as well as the inadequate implementation of these limited protections. Information such as a person's name, location, general preferences, friend's list, are clearly powerful tools for analytics and profiling of users but do not qualify for protection as sensitive data under the present law,"" she added. Reporting by Ayeshea Perera and Zubair Ahmed in Delhi Related Topics Narendra Modi Facebook Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal India Share this story About sharing         Top Stories Trump says summit with Kim is back on The planned summit will go ahead on 12 June, Mr Trump says after talks with a North Korean official. 1 June 2018 Visa says service returning to normal 1 June 2018 Woman dies after car ploughs into crowd 1 June 2018   Features  [if lt IE 9  endif] Living on a rock in the North Atlantic  [if lt IE 9  endif] Capital records: Revisit London's iconic album cover images  [if lt IE 9  endif] Review: Fortnite - Battle Royale ★★★☆☆  [if lt IE 9  endif] Written off aged five: From bottom set to deputy head  [if lt IE 9  endif] Meet Norman, the psychopathic AI  closed in responsive-image-end [if lt IE 9  endif] opened in responsive-image-start The witch hunts of Papua New Guinea  closed in responsive-image-end [if lt IE 9  endif] opened in responsive-image-start Better orgasms and no leaks: Tips for a strong pelvic floor  [if lt IE 9  endif] The best news photos from the past week  [if lt IE 9  endif] Ramadan: The 'shame' of eating during a period   Elsewhere on the BBC [if lt IE 9  endif]  Will it be the next food fad? Full article Cockroach milk [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w995] Facebook shock as users find THOUSANDS of snooping apps taking their data Jetpack Site Verification Tags  GA and Optimize Page hiding snippet (recommended)  Jetpack Open Graph Tags     Jump directly to the content The Sun, A News UK Company Sign in UK Edition Scottish Sun Irish Sun Sun Bets Sun Bingo Dream Team Search Home Football Sport TV & Showbiz News Fabulous Money Motors Travel Tech Dear Deidre Puzzles Topics A-Z All Tech Science Phones & Gadgets Gaming Facebook shock as users find THOUSANDS of snooping apps taking their data Social media users are panicking as the fallout from this week's Facebook data breach scandal continues FACEBOOK users are panicking as they realise how much data they were accidentally handing over to third-party apps. Twitter is being flooded with shocked users who have discovered that they have hundreds (and in some cases THOUSANDS) of Facebook-connected apps hoovering up their private info. The Sun You need to check which apps you have connected to Facebook right now Last weekend, it was revealed that a personality quiz app connected to Facebook had sucked up data from the 270,000 people who responded. But it also gathered info for all of those users' Facebook friends - amounting to about 50m accounts. This data was reportedly sold on to the firm Cambridge Analytica, who are said to have used it to help influence elections, and Facebook are under severe scrutiny for failing to get the info destroyed. When you connect an app to Facebook, you give it permission to nick loads of your data. You can check which apps you've signed up to here – and it's probably more than you'd like. Facebook needs to give users a quick way to bulk disconnect or edit connected apps linked to their profile. I have over 1,600!! It’s gonna take me forever to manually remove/edit each one. pic.twitter.com/bFkwWP3x9z — Matt Navarra (@MattNavarra) March 20, 2018 Went to check how many apps I’ve connected to through Facebook and… aaaaaaaaaaccckkkkkk pic.twitter.com/J5b6S7ze5j — Jason Abbruzzese (@JasonAbbruzzese) March 20, 2018 Don't worry, you're not alone: Facebook users are posting their horror on Twitter after learning how many apps had access to their data. Fortunately it's no longer the case that these apps can nick your friends' data too. But these apps get a host of information about you , including your name, profile picture, cover photo, gender, networks, username and user ID. They also get access to your Friends list, and any other information you choose to make public – including status updates. Facebook Data Breach – what happened? Here's what you need to know... A personality quiz app obtained data for 270,000 willing Facebook users But it also sucked up info on all of their Facebook friends That meant the app caught data for around 50-60 million users This data was reportedly sold on to UK research firm Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica helps politicians and lobby groups create propaganda The data was supposedly used to boost the Brexit campaign and get Trump into the White House Facebook is said to have known about the data breach since 2015 The social network asked companies with the data to delete it, but didn't enforce the rule The Guardian revealed the incident in an exposé thanks to Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie There are now serious questions about whether Facebook has broken laws by giving up this data i'm going through the 300+ apps connected to my facebook account and it's just a graveyard of failed social networks and bad devices highlight htc status galaxy S5 motorola DROID so many contact management apps that don't exist anymore — dan seifert (@dcseifert) March 20, 2018 FFS, I'm seeing over 200+ random 'apps' connected to my Facebook account and the 'ads' preferences shows over 1000+ interests and preferences that Facebook has auto-generated based on my activity. Time for some spring cleaning. — Dema (@DamianPerera) March 21, 2018 Trying to delete my facebook profile... and now I realize my account is connected to 184 apps. If only there was an app for disconnecting all the other apps. What a mess. — Matt Conway (@ConwayMatt) March 21, 2018 Some users have reported huge numbers of connected apps that they didn't realise they'd even signed up to. ""Consumers have little idea as to how many apps they've allowed to utilise Facebook data,"" GfK analyst Imran Choudhary told The Sun. ""Consumers in general when downloading and installing apps seldom read the full T&Cs; and very few remember what permissions they've agreed to once the apps are up and running. ""There needs to be a broader awareness piece for consumers on exactly what they are signing up to and how their data is being used. Confused by the Facebook breach? Check out our helpful guides... Facebook data scandal EXPLAINED What is Cambridge Analytica? Where is Mark Zuckerberg? How to see ALL your Facebook data How to delete your Facebook account Why it's time to delete Facebook How to stop Facebook apps handing over your data We also spoke to GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives, who said that this latest data breach had ""opened up a Pandora's box in terms of data privacy and third-party app access"". He told The Sun that Facebook has always been a ""golden boy"", but now the ""dark side of social media and data privacy has been under the spotlight"". ""The Cambridge data leak could be the silver bullet to tighten up controls and data privacy going forward. ""We believe how Zuckerberg & Co. handle this Cambridge debacle will be a defining period for Facebook. MOST READ IN TECH SNAP IT UP PLAY AWAY CORE OF THE PROBLEM? LAW GAMES NOT 'APPY HANG UP The good news is that you can follow our simple guide on how to stop Facebook apps handing over your data to boost your Facebook safety. How many apps do you have connected to Facebook? Let us know in the comments. We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for too. Click here to yours. Comments Apps Facebook Comments Most Popular CARD CHAOS Visa sorry for crash which sparked payment chaos but insist there was no hack LOVE SICK Man 'dumped after getting bowel disease as girlfriend runs off with best pal' LAST WORDS Dad stabbed outside Casualty star's flat 'cried out for kids with dying breath' HOUNDING OF THE BICYCLES Benedict Cumberbatch saves cyclist from FOUR muggers near Baker St 'CANCER WAS A GIFT' Millionaire dies after giving fortune to charity following diagnosis BUTT OUT WALLIAMS Simon Cowell's fury as David drops his trousers inches from his face STREETS OF RAGE Cyclist armed with 'zombie knife' smashes driver's window in road rage row Ryan-Unfair Ryanair jobsworths REFUSE couple's £100 gift voucher over 'Mum Dad' name 'I'm totally natural' Gemma Collins defends going topless and says she 'loves her boobs' TALENTED LOT Meet the Britain's Got Talent semi-finalists - and those who are in the final The Sun and carefully selected third parties use cookies on this site to improve performance, for analytics and for advertising. By browsing this site you are agreeing to this. For more information see our Privacy and Cookie policy Close Follow The Sun Services Sign Up To The Sun Terms and Conditions Editorial Complaints Clarifications and Corrections News Licensing Advertising Contact Us Commissioning Terms Help Hub Topic A-Z Sell Your Story ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. ""The Sun"", ""Sun"", ""Sun Online"" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy . To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries, Contact Us . To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here .  START Parse.ly Include: Standard END Parse.ly Include: Standard  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w996]  Cambridge Analytica: PM quizzed over Conservative links - BBC News   [if IE]> endif] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst  Begin iStats 20100118 (UX-CMC 1.1009.3) End iStats (UX-CMC) [if (lt IE 9) & (!IEMobile) if (IE 8)  endif if (IE 7)  endif if (IE 6)  endif endif]  Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help   BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC  Styling hook for shared modules only [if lt IE 9    endif]  BBC News Navigation                     Cambridge Analytica: PM quizzed over Conservative links 21 March 2018      Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-43486054 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window  Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Theresa May has been challenged to explain alleged Tory links to firms at the centre of a dispute over the harvesting and use of personal data. The SNP's Ian Blackford said SCL, the parent company of Cambridge Analytica, has been run by a chairman of Oxford Conservative Association. He also claimed its founding chairman was a former Tory MP and a director had donated over £700,000 to the party. The PM said she was not aware of any current contracts with the firms. Prime Minister's Questions: The verdict We made mistakes, admits Facebook chief Cambridge Analytica: The data firm's global influence The story so far The prime minister's official spokesman later said that three government departments had had contracts with the SCL Group in the past. Political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica is facing questions over whether it used the personal data of millions of Facebook users to sway the outcome of the US 2016 presidential election and the UK Brexit referendum. The company has suspended its CEO, Alexander Nix, who was filmed as part of a Channel 4 investigation giving examples of how the firm could swing elections around the world with underhand tactics such as smear campaigns and honey traps. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has admitted the company ""made mistakes"" in its dealings with Cambridge Analytica and a ""breach of trust"" had occurred between the social media giant and its users. In a statement , he promised to strengthen the way users' data is protected to prevent ""harvesting"". And he said app developers that misused personally identifiable information would be banned from accessing the platform. Media playback is unsupported on your device Blackford: Tory links to Cambridge Analytica go ""on and on"" At Prime Minister's Questions on Wednesday, Mr Blackford, the SNP's Westminster leader, raised the issue saying links between the Conservative Party and SCL - Strategic Communications Laboratories - the parent company of Cambridge Analytica, ""go on and on"". He told MPs SCL ""has been run by a chairman of Oxford Conservative Association"", and added: ""It's founding chairman was a former Conservative MP - a director appears to have donated over £700,000 to the Tory party. ""A former Conservative party treasurer is a shareholder. We know about the links to the Conservative party - they go on and on."" He asked Theresa May to confirm to the Commons ""your government's connections to the company"". Cambridge Analytica: Facebook boss summoned over data claims The PM replied that allegations concerning the two firms were ""clearly very concerning"". ""As far as I'm aware, the government has no current contracts with Cambridge Analytica or with the SCL group,"" she said. ""It's absolutely right that they are properly investigated and the information commissioner is doing exactly that. ""People need to have confidence in how their personal data is being used. I would expect Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and all organisations involved to comply fully with the investigation that's taking place."" She added that a bill is being brought forward on data protection that will give tougher powers to the Information Commissioner's Office - which scrutinises the use of the public's private data for political purposes - to ensure organisations comply. Asked whether government departments have had contracts with the SCL group, the prime minister's official spokesman said there had been three. These were a Ministry of Defence data project in 2014-2015 - when there was a Conservative-Lib Dem coalition government - plus a Home Office training project and a Foreign Office communications project in during Gordon Brown's Labour government. A Conservative party spokesman said: ""The Conservative Party has never employed Cambridge Analytica, or its parent company, nor used their services."" Cambridge Analytica, along with Facebook, is under scrutiny following claims by a whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, who worked with Cambridge Analytica, a London-based firm. He alleges it amassed large amounts of data through a personality quiz on Facebook called This is Your Digital Life. He claims that 270,000 people took the quiz, but the data of some 50 million users, mainly in the US, was harvested without their explicit consent via their friend networks. Mr Wylie says that data was sold to Cambridge Analytica, which then used it to psychologically profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them, with a view to influencing the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. Related Topics Facebook Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Theresa May Ian Blackford Share this story About sharing       More on this story  20 March 2018     Top Stories Trump says summit with Kim is back on The planned summit will go ahead on 12 June, Mr Trump says after talks with a North Korean official. 1 June 2018 Visa says service returning to normal 1 June 2018 Woman dies after car ploughs into crowd 1 June 2018   Features  [if lt IE 9  endif] Living on a rock in the North Atlantic  [if lt IE 9  endif] Capital records: Revisit London's iconic album cover images  [if lt IE 9  endif] Review: Fortnite - Battle Royale ★★★☆☆  [if lt IE 9  endif] Written off aged five: From bottom set to deputy head  [if lt IE 9  endif] Meet Norman, the psychopathic AI  closed in responsive-image-end [if lt IE 9  endif] opened in responsive-image-start The witch hunts of Papua New Guinea  closed in responsive-image-end [if lt IE 9  endif] opened in responsive-image-start Better orgasms and no leaks: Tips for a strong pelvic floor  [if lt IE 9  endif] The best news photos from the past week  [if lt IE 9  endif] Ramadan: The 'shame' of eating during a period   Elsewhere on the BBC [if lt IE 9  endif]  Will it be the next food fad? Full article Cockroach milk [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w997]  Facebook's Zuckerberg speaks out over Cambridge Analytica 'breach' - BBC News   [if IE]> endif] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst  Begin iStats 20100118 (UX-CMC 1.1009.3) End iStats (UX-CMC) [if (lt IE 9) & (!IEMobile) if (IE 8)  endif if (IE 7)  endif if (IE 6)  endif endif]  Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help   BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC  Styling hook for shared modules only [if lt IE 9    endif]  BBC News Navigation                   Facebook's Zuckerberg speaks out over Cambridge Analytica 'breach' 22 March 2018      Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-43494337 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window  Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Media playback is unsupported on your device Cambridge Analytica: What we know so far Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has admitted that the social network ""made mistakes"" that led to millions of Facebook users having their data exploited by a political consultancy. Cambridge Analytica is accused of improperly using the data on behalf of political clients. In a statement, Mr Zuckerberg said a ""breach of trust"" had occurred. In a later interview with CNN he said he was ""really sorry"", and pledged to take action against ""rogue apps"". He added that he was ""happy"" to testify before Congress ""if it's the right thing to do"". In his statement posted on Facebook, he promised to make it far harder for apps to ""harvest"" user information. ""We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you,"" Mr Zuckerberg said. Facebook 'lost sight' of data says insider Facebook warned by advertisers 'enough is enough' Cambridge Analytica: The story so far The data firm's global reach How can you protect your Facebook data? What has Zuckerberg pledged to do? To address current and past problems, Mr Zuckerberg said his company would: investigate all Facebook apps that had access to large amounts of information before the platform was changed ""to dramatically reduce data access"" in 2014 conduct a ""full forensic audit"" of any app with suspicious activity ban any developer that did not agree to a thorough audit ban developers that had misused personally identifiable information, and ""tell everyone affected by those apps"" In future, he said Facebook would: restrict developers' data access ""even further"" to prevent other kinds of abuse remove developers' access to a user's data if the user hadn't activated the developer's app for three months reduce the data that users give an app when they sign in to just name, profile photo, and email address require developers to obtain approval and also sign a contract in order to ask anyone for access to their posts or other private data Mr Zuckerberg added: ""While this specific issue involving Cambridge Analytica should no longer happen with new apps today, that doesn't change what happened in the past. ""We will learn from this experience to secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward."" Media playback is unsupported on your device Mark Zuckerberg in 2009: Facebook privacy is central 'Legal defence' Analysis by Dave Lee, BBC North America technology reporter, at Facebook's headquarters I read one thing loud and clear from Mr Zuckerberg's initial statement: Facebook is not prepared to take the blame for what has happened. Contrition has never been Mr Zuckerberg's strong point, and the statement, days in the making, was no different. No apology to users, investors or staff over how this incident was allowed to happen by the data policies in place at the time. No explanation as to why, after learning its data was being abused like this in 2014, it opted to give the companies a telling off instead of banning them outright. No reasoning as to why Facebook failed to inform users their data may have been affected. Technically, it still hasn't. Mr Zuckerberg's words were not an explanation, but a legal and political defence. This company knows it is heading into battle on multiple fronts. Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC What is the row about? In 2014, Facebook invited users to find out their personality type via a quiz developed by Cambridge University researcher Dr Aleksandr Kogan called This is Your Digital Life. About 270,000 users' data was collected, but the app also collected some public data from users' friends. Media playback is unsupported on your device Former Cambridge Analytica employee Christopher Wylie says the firm planted fake news Facebook has since changed the amount of data developers can gather in this way, but a whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, says the data of about 50 million people was harvested for Cambridge Analytica before the rules on user consent were tightened up. Mr Wylie claims the data was sold to Cambridge Analytica - which has no connection with Cambridge University - which then used it to psychologically profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them. Media playback is unsupported on your device Tuesday's broadcast showed Mr Nix saying he met Donald Trump 'many times' The firm's chief executive, Alexander Nix - who was suspended on Tuesday - was secretly recorded in a Channel 4 investigation saying the London-based company ran Donald Trump's digital campaign during the 2016 US election. ""We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy,"" he added. Dr Kogan has said he was told by Cambridge Analytica everything they had done was legal, and that he was being made a ""scapegoat"" by the firm and Facebook. How has Cambridge Analytica responded? Cambridge Analytica denies any wrongdoing. Facebook says users' data was obtained legitimately but Cambridge Analytica failed to delete it when told to do so. Media playback is unsupported on your device Mr Nix spoke to BBC Newsnight before the Channel 4 report was aired on Monday night. He declined to be interviewed after the undercover footage was broadcast For its part, Cambridge Analytica says it did delete the data when told to by Facebook. It suspended Mr Nix following his comments which appeared to suggest tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online. However, the firm said the report of comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 News had ""grossly misrepresented"" Mr Nix's comments. What investigations are under way? US senators have called on Mr Zuckerberg to testify before Congress about how his company will protect users, while consumer watchdog the US Federal Trade Commission has reportedly opened an investigation into Facebook . The head of the European Parliament also said it would investigate to see if the data was misused. Facebook boss summoned over data claims India takes down Cambridge Analytica site The UK's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is attempting to obtain a warrant to search the offices of Cambridge Analytica. Meanwhile, a UK parliamentary committee has called for Mr Zuckerberg to give evidence about its use of personal data. There have also been calls for an investigation into the work Cambridge Analytica carried out during the 2013 election in Kenya. Related Topics Facebook Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Mark Zuckerberg Share this story About sharing       More on this story  22 March 2018  21 March 2018  21 March 2018  21 March 2018  20 March 2018  21 March 2018  20 March 2018  20 March 2018  21 March 2018     Top Stories Trump says summit with Kim is back on The planned summit will go ahead on 12 June, Mr Trump says after talks with a North Korean official. 1 June 2018 Visa says service returning to normal 1 June 2018 Woman dies after car ploughs into crowd 1 June 2018   Features  [if lt IE 9  endif] Living on a rock in the North Atlantic  [if lt IE 9  endif] Capital records: Revisit London's iconic album cover images  [if lt IE 9  endif] Review: Fortnite - Battle Royale ★★★☆☆  [if lt IE 9  endif] Written off aged five: From bottom set to deputy head  [if lt IE 9  endif] Meet Norman, the psychopathic AI  closed in responsive-image-end [if lt IE 9  endif] opened in responsive-image-start The witch hunts of Papua New Guinea  closed in responsive-image-end [if lt IE 9  endif] opened in responsive-image-start Better orgasms and no leaks: Tips for a strong pelvic floor  [if lt IE 9  endif] The best news photos from the past week  [if lt IE 9  endif] Ramadan: The 'shame' of eating during a period   Elsewhere on the BBC [if lt IE 9  endif]  Will it be the next food fad? Full article Cockroach milk [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w998] [if lt IE 7]> < class=""no-js lt-ie7"" lang=""en-US"" xmlns:fb=""http://ogp.me/ns/fb#""> endif] [if IE 7 < class=""no-js ie7"" lang=""en-US"" xmlns:fb=""http://ogp.me/ns/fb#""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""no-js ie8"" lang=""en-US"" xmlns:fb=""http://ogp.me/ns/fb#""> endif] [if lte IE 8  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w999]  US markets lower after rate rise - BBC News   [if IE]> endif] BBCDOTCOM bodyFirst  Begin iStats 20100118 (UX-CMC 1.1009.3) End iStats (UX-CMC) [if (lt IE 9) & (!IEMobile) if (IE 8)  endif if (IE 7)  endif if (IE 6)  endif endif]  Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help   BBC navigation Home Home News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Tomorrow's World Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC  Styling hook for shared modules only [if lt IE 9    																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1000]    ShareThis Google Analytics MailPoet. 	"I bequeath myself to the dirt to grow from the grass I love, "	If you want me again look for me under your boot-soles START Scripts : this is the script part you can add to the header of your theme END Scripts map  Cambridge Analytica update: CEO boasts of involvement in the Trump campaign; Facebook stays quiet | Verdict This site is optimized with the Yoast SEO plugin v7.2 - https://yoast.com/wordpress/plugins/seo/ Facebook SDK start Facebook SDK end php// $pagename = get_query_var('pagename'); 	//if ( $pagename != 'chart-embed-page') { 	?  Listen to The Verdict Podcast  Get the morning email   Latest Editor's Pick Lifestyle Open/close Opinion Network Close Search Start SearchForm  End SearchForm  Subscribe: Verdict Twitter account Verdict Facebook page Verdict Instagram page .subscribe  About Latest Trending topics Editor's Pick News Comment Wire Research Wire Features .promoted-links Verdict Intelligence Close Verdict Email The issues you care about   .email-subscription .extra-links The Verdict Network Logistics Airport Technology Railway Technology Ship Technology Consumer Packaging Gateway Retail Insight Drinks Insight Financial Services Private Banking Retail Banking Cards Healthcare Pharmaceutical Technology Drug Development Technology Medical Device Technology Energy Power Technology Offshore Technology Mining Technology Other Water Technology Chemical Technology Design Build View full network .verdict-network .row .scrolling-content .mega-menu 3 things that will change the world today Get our eye opening email newsletter delivered to your inbox daily.  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																		
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1001] [if lt IE 7]> < prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#"" class=""no-js ie6 lte9 lte8 lte7""> endif] [if IE 7 < prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#"" class=""no-js ie7 lte9 lte8 lte7""> endif] [if IE 8 < prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#"" class=""no-js ie8 lte9 lte9 lte8""> endif] [if IE 9 < prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#"" class=""no-js ie9 lte9""> endif] [if IE 10 < prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#"" class=""no-js ie10 lte10""> endif] [if gt IE 10 < prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#"" class=""no-js""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1002]  Cambridge Analytica scandal shows Facebook's predatory data policies cannot last  /* IE 11 Tile for Windows 8.1 Start Screen */   OVERLAY LOGO BAR  CLOSE BUTTON  NAV PRIMARY Premium News Politics World Sport Technology Business Money Opinion Travel Culture Lifestyle Health and Fitness Fashion Luxury Cars Weddings Obituaries NAV SECONDARY Free Mobile App Jobs Financial Solutions Rewards Events Dating Offers Shop Garden Shop Bookshop Box Office Puzzles Fantasy Football Work at The Telegraph Telegraph Corporate   Search Video Rewards  Upgrade to Premium My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  My Account My account btn  Premium btn HTML EMBED  My details   My newsletters  Logout  Upgrade to Premium   Search Video Rewards  Subscribe - 30 days free My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  Login My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  Register My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  Search Video Rewards  My Account My account btn  Premium btn HTML EMBED  My details   My newsletters  Logout   Home News Sport Business NAV OVERLAY BUTTON  Technology Intelligence   Big Tech Start-ups Innovation Politics of Tech Gadgets Flash briefing Podcast Newsletter Tech Jobs    Telegraph Technology Intelligence   Cambridge Analytica scandal shows Facebook's predatory data policies cannot last                    Technology latest  Market report: Alfa Financial shares tumble  as project delays hit earnings  Spotify rows back on hateful conduct policy after coming under fire from music industry  Facebook to remove 'trending' news stories section following years of controversy  iOS 12: 8 things we want to see in Apple's new iPhone software  This robot-run newsroom 'weeds out 99 per cent of fake news'  Mark Zuckerberg feels wrath of investors at shareholder meeting  What is cryptocurrency, how does it work and why do we use it?  What is bitcoin, how does it work and what affects its price?  Google blames Wikipedia for linking California Republicans to Nazism  The Tories' biggest future challenge is not Brexit: it's AI, and the chaos it could unleash Jeremy Warner   Uganda imposes WhatsApp tax  Deloitte partners face ban from accounting over failures on Autonomy  Chinese artificial intelligence start-up SenseTime raises $620m for its facial recognition technology  Jaguar I-Pace SUV, in pictures – full prices, specs and photos revealed  Google draws up guidelines for its military AI following employee fury  Uber seeks deal on self-driving cars with former rival Waymo  'I dug through everything that social media services know about me'   'Embarrassing' leak shows EU falls short of own GDPR data law   Fertility tracking bracelet Ava raises $30m to expand into healthcare  British businesses facing cyber ransom demands of up to £200,000  Microsoft's value overtakes Alphabet for the first time in three years    Contact us About us Rewards Archive Reader Prints Branded Content Syndication Guidelines Privacy Terms and Conditions Advertising terms  © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018    We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Click here for instructions Close "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1003] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""//www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd"" class fe.views.page_modules.Head class fe.views.head_modules.Title Facebook shock as users find thousands of spying apps using data | Daily Mail Online class fe.views.preload.Preload   class fe.views.dynamic_ad_control.DynamicAdControl dynamic_ad_control_url: http://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v4/us/sciencetech/none/article/other class fe.views.ads_preload.AdsPreload ad: http://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v4/us/sciencetech/none/article/other/headertags. class fe.views.head_modules.MetaGoogleAds google_ad_section_start(name=s1) google_ad_section_end(name=s1) class fe.views.head_modules.MetaAddOns class fe.views.meta_properties.MetaProperties       class fe.views.meta_links.MetaLinks class fe.views.head_modules.CssDesktop [if IE]>  endif] [if IE  endif] class fe.views.head_modules.CssReaderComments [if IE  endif] class fe.views.head_modules.CssLazyLoad class fe.views.fff.CssFFF class fe.views.head_modules.JsPageCriteria class fe.views.head_modules.JsInitVars class fe.views.head_modules.JsTwitterVia class fe.views.head_modules.JsDart class fe.tracking.rta.JsRTA2 class fe.views.head_modules.JsFeSync [if IE 8  endif] [if IE 9  endif] [if IE  endif] class fe.views.head_modules.JsAdverts ad-config: http://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v4/us/sciencetech/none/article/other/false/wide/dailymail/config. class fe.views.head_modules.JsFeAsync [if IE  endif] class fe.views.head_modules.JsVideo [if IE  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1004] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""http://www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd"" 'Your phone is a data goldmine': What you can do to protect yourself against data mining   Start dmlpool Tag End dmlpool Tag [if IE 6]> endif] [if IE 7 endif] [if IE 8 endif] [if gte IE 9"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1005] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""http://www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd"" Poll: Will you change your behaviour online because of the Cambridge Analytica scandal?   Start dmlpool Tag End dmlpool Tag [if IE 6]> endif] [if IE 7 endif] [if IE 8 endif] [if gte IE 9"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1006]  	 Social media shares slide | BreakingNews.ie  [if lt IE 9]>  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1007] [if lt IE 7]>< xmlns=""http://www.w3.org/1999/x"" prefix="""" lang=""en-US"" class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7""> endif] [if (IE 7)&!(IEMobile) < xmlns=""http://www.w3.org/1999/x"" prefix="""" lang=""en-US"" class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8""> endif] [if (IE 8)&!(IEMobile) < xmlns=""http://www.w3.org/1999/x"" prefix="""" lang=""en-US"" class=""no-js lt-ie9""> endif] [if IE"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1008] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""http://www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd""   Facebook had a wild west approach to user data, says ex-employee | Irish Examiner    ePaper Postal Delivery Photos Competitions Newspaper Archive Advertise With Us Shop Death Notices Find a... Home Job IrishExaminer   go Home mobile Hot Topics - Ireland - Latest - Today's Stories  - Breaking News - GAA - Football - Hurling - Rugby - Soccer - Racing - Golf - Others - Columns - Podcast - Culture - Fashion/Beauty - Features - Food/Drink - Health/Life - Outdoors/Garden - Showbiz - Travel - Home - Columns - Analysis - Our View - Your View - Send your views - Columnists  Technow - Property Search Showbiz Weather Horoscopes Death Notices Web Archive Newspaper Archive - Advertise With Us - Apps - Competitions - ePaper - Photos - Postal Delivery - Shop - Home - Job  IRELAND Ireland Ireland Today Weather Web Archive WORLD SPORT Latest Gaa Rugby Soccer Racing Golf Other Podcast Columns BUSINESS VIEWS Columns Comment/Analysis Our View Your View Send Your View LIFE Culture Fashion Features Food/Drink Health/Life Outdoors/Garden Showbiz Travel Horoscopes Home/Interiors PROPERTY TECH SHOWBIZ ExamViral MOTORS News Reviews FARMING  go HOT TOPICS: Trade wars Indaver Jastine Valdez UL Video Series 2018 Farm Focus with FBD Israel  Home Breaking News world  Facebook had a wild west approach to user data, says ex-employee Wednesday, March 21, 2018 - 05:54 PM Facebook had ""wild west"" approach to looking after its users' data and had ""little detection"" of any violations of its policies, a former employee of the company has told British MPs. Speaking amid allegations election consultants Cambridge Analytica (CA) harvested the data of millions of Facebook users for the purposes of political targeting, whistleblower Sandy Parakilas claimed the company ""had very few ways of discovering abuse or enforcing on abuse when it was discovered"". Mr Parakilas, who worked in policy compliance and data protection for Facebook between 2011 and 2012, was giving evidence to the UK's Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee's (DCMS) and said that while security to protect against hacking or other attacks was very strong, the same could not be said of user data accessed by Facebook developers. He said that, to prevent abuse of its data, Facebook created a set of policies that forbade activity such as selling user data or passing it to advertising networks, but said he had no memory of a ""single physical audit of a developer's storage"" during his time there. ""[Facebook] had very good engineers working on technical security,"" he said. ""But this platform... would allow [developers] to get all this data on people who hadn't really explicitly authorised it,"" he said, explaining that they were at this time able to collect data on users' friends without the explicit permission of those friends. ""It was personally identifiable, it was your name, in some cases your email addresses, in some cases your private messages - they just basically allowed that to leave Facebook's servers intentionally and there weren't really controls once the data had left to make sure it was being used in an appropriate way."" Facebook stopped allowing developers to access users' friends' data in the this way in 2014. He added: ""I would say that in some ways this is worse than a data breach... the users had no idea that this had happened. ""Their data was compromised in the same way it would have been in a technical data breach. Facebook was aware that this had happened and didn't notify anyone, and then should have been aware that it was continuing to happen and then didn't notify anyone,"" he said. Ian C Lucas, a Labour MP who sits on the DCMS committee, described the testimony as ""extraordinary"" and said it showed ""Facebook knew that Cambridge Analytica had breached their data rules, but for over two years allowed CA to trade on that data without taking preventative action"". Facebook shares have slid by more than 7.6% since the first allegations were reported at the weekend by the Observer, and has received a backlash online - with a number of users reporting that they were deleting their accounts, including the co-founder of Whatsapp, which was bought by Facebook in 2014. The company is also facing legal action from some of its own shareholders, who claim the company made ""materially false and misleading statements regarding the company's business, operational and compliance policies"". DCMS committee chairman Damian Collins has also called on Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to appear before MPs to ""give an accurate account"" of what he described as a ""catastrophic failure of process"". The Information Commissioner has announced a probe in to CA, saying ""people need to have confidence in how their personal data is being used"". CA chief executive Alexander Nix was suspended after recordings emerged of him making a series of controversial claims, including boasts that CA had a pivotal role in the election of Donald Trump. The company has denied using Facebook data in its work on the President's election campaign. Downing Street today confirmed that the Government employed CA parent company SCL for a contract with the Ministry of Defence, but said this had ended before the recent allegations came to light. ""We are looking across Government to see if there were any other contracts,"" said a spokesman. ""As the Prime Minister said, we are not aware of any current contracts."" The Conservative Party said it had been approached by CA with a pitch for work during David Cameron's leadership, but said this was rejected. ""The Conservative Party has never employed Cambridge Analytica or its parent company, nor used their services,"" a Tory spokesman said. - PA  News Daily Headlines Receive our lunchtime briefing straight to your inbox Related Articles Facebook will not pay compensation for Cambridge Analytica case UK's Information Commissioner finds in favour of professor over Cambridge Analytica personal data fight Bosses of collapsed Cambridge Analytica could still face action – ICO Latest: Mark Zuckerberg threatened with formal summons in fake news inquiry in the UK More in this Section Crowd chants ‘let Tommy out’ on march supporting jailed ex-EDL leader Robinson Melania Trump will not join husband at presidential retreat Italian populists sworn into power as Eurosceptics cheer 'Italy first' Grenfell Tower fraudster who claimed father died in blaze jailed Today's Stories Electrified road could slash cost of electric cars Lifestyle New father’s life ‘changed forever’ after he was run over by surgeon The biggest cancer killer will take your breath away Hopefully she had an idea... Power of the press: Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks discuss 'The Post' More From The Irish Examiner   Most Read Top Stories Bishop defends Church position and describes referendum celebrations as 'horrific' Eight magical places to visit in Cork RTE journalist reveals Martin Callinan told him Maurice McCabe had psychiatric issues 'Young Offenders' and 'Derry Girls' rule at IFTAs Ana Kriegel: Siberian warrior who was a vulnerable girl inside Grant issue now a serious distraction Murder of schoolgirl Ana Kriegel a 'complicated case', court told Five candidates in running for top Garda role Game plan must evolve to get best of a terrific 10 Kerry suffered by having 'too easy a time' in recent years, says Sheehan SPORT Will Limerick’s rest week prove pick-me-up or passion killer to Munster hopes? Fresher Limerick have package to trump Cork’s marquee names Examviral These songs for the elderly are hilariously relatable WATCH: Father Ray Kelly's emotional Britain Got Talent's semi-final performance A student ordered takeaway just to get the delivery driver to remove a spider 7 things to do this Bank Holiday Weekend Suzanne ‘So Sue Me’ Jackson announces pop-up beauty shop This poor pup was found covered in marker pen scrawl – now she has a new home  Start the search for your new job  All Regions Dublin Cork Limerick Galway --------------------- Dublin Dublin North Dublin South Dublin West Dublin City Centre Antrim Armagh Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Derry Donegal Down Fermanagh Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Tyrone Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow --------------------- Rest of Leinster Munster Connaught/Ulster Northern Ireland Nationwide --------------------- UK Europe Worldwide Australia United Arab Emirates New Zealand Canada USA North Africa South Africa Middle East GO  Lotto Results Wednesday, May 30, 2018  Full Lotto draw results » Follow the Irish Examiner    Breaking News Today´s Paper World Business Farming Technology Weather Death Notices Archives Soccer Podcast Columnists GAA Rugby Golf Racing Other Sport Results Our view (editorial) Your view (letters) Send letter to editor's page Columnists Showbiz Fashion & Beauty Food & Drink Health & Life Home & Interiors Horoscopes Property Travel Arts, Books, Film & TV Features Motors FAQ Contact Us Media Pack Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Mobile Subscriptions Terms and Conditions NNI ePaper Postal Delivery Competitions RSS © Irish Examiner Ltd, Linn Dubh, Assumption Road, Blackpool, Cork. Registered in Ireland: 523712.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1009] [if IE 7]> < class=""ie ie7"" lang=""en-GB"" prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""ie ie8"" lang=""en-GB"" prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#""> endif] [if IE 9 < class=""ie ie9"" lang=""en-GB"" prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#""> endif] [if gt IE 9 < class=""ie ie10+"" lang=""en-GB"" prefix=""og: http://ogp.me/ns#""> endif] Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager  Facebook chief Zuckerberg decries data breach - Mobile World Live [if lt IE 9  endif] [if lte IE 8  endif] [if lte IE 8  endif] [if lt IE 10 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1010] Static common meta tag for all the views  Mark Zuckerberg breaks cover to admit mistakes over Facebook's Cambridge Analytica data harvesting scandal Jetpack Site Verification Tags Jump directly to the content  News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services. Follow The Sun Your Sun Sign in Editions UK Edition Scottish Sun Dream Team The Sun The Sun The Scottish Sun Dream Team Sun Bets Fabulous Sun Favourite Sun Motors Sun Bingo Sun Gifts News Corp WSJ.com New York Post The Australian News.com.au Storyful Harper Collins Realtor.com Services Sign Up To The Sun Terms and Conditions Editorial Complaints Clarifications and Corrections Syndication Advertising Contact Us Help Hub    Sign in Irish Sun UK Edition Scottish Sun Dream Team Search    Home Football Sport TV & Showbiz News Fabulous Money Motors Travel Tech Dear Deidre Puzzles   "								All News							 								Irish News							 								World News							 								Tech & Science							 								Opinion							 								Health News							 .swiper-wrapper .sub-nav__list  .swiper-container .{theme-slug}-secondary .sub-nav .col .sun-col-6 .no-gutters sun-row .no-gutters .sun-container .sub-nav__container .theme__background-color   Mark Zuckerberg breaks cover to admit mistakes over Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica data harvesting scandal He said steps had been taken to address the issue but admitted 'we also made mistakes' .article__header   .article__meta MARK Zuckerberg has finally broken cover to admit mistakes were made in the Facebook data breach fallout. After four days of silence since the scandal broke he today pledged to make changes and said he was “responsible for what happens on our platform”. 			Noah Berger		 		Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has admitted making mistakes in the data breach	" The social media giant will be called to appear before the Dail after details of the data breach scandal emerged. The Oireachtas Communications Committee has agreed to haul the company into Leinster House. Zuckerberg said in a statement on Facebook: “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you. “The good news is that the most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago. But we also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.” The lengthy statement concluded: “I want to thank all of you who continue to believe in our mission and work to build this community together. I know it takes longer to fix all these issues than we’d like, but I promise you we’ll work through this and build a better service over the long term.” He outlined a timeline of events leading up to what he dubbed “a breach of trust”, which began in 2007 with the launch of the Facebook Platform.  "		He addressed the scandal today in a post on Facebook	" Facebook Data Breach – what happened? A personality quiz app obtained data for 270,000 willing Facebook users But it also sucked up info on all of their Facebook friends That meant the app caught data for around 50-60 million users This data was reportedly sold on to UK research firm Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica helps politicians and lobby groups create propaganda The data was supposedly used to boost the Brexit campaign and get Trump into the White House Facebook is said to have known about the data breach since 2015 The social network asked companies with the data to delete it, but didn’t enforce the rule The Guardian revealed the incident in an expose thanks to Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie There are now serious questions about whether Facebook has broken laws by giving up this data In 2013 a Cambridge University researcher, Aleksandr Kogan, created a personality quiz app that was able to harvest millions of people’s data – a year later the social media giant limited the data apps could access, he said. The founder and CEO confirmed a new tool would be introduced to show users which apps they have allowed to access their data. Zuckerberg was missing in action yesterday as he failed to make an appearance at a staff meeting, while calls for him to appear before US and UK lawmakers in London and Washington had been completely ignored. Concerns are now growing about the future of the embattled company after the scandal worsened overnight with shocking new allegations about Cambridge Analytica’s use of honeytraps and bribes to discredit its clients’ rivals. Zuckerberg faced calls to come clean over claims the company knew about the Cambridge Analytica data breach – which affected 50 million users – since 2015. As well as failing to appear at yesterday’s staff meeting, he had been conspicuously quiet on Facebook and Instagram – his two favoured social media platforms – since March 2. On that day he posted a photo of himself and his wife Priscilla showing off some baked goods in celebration of Purim, a Jewish holiday. One Facebook employee told Business Insider : “Everybody at Facebook in first year gets immunised to stories about Facebook – or they quit. “But there are plenty of people irked about this, about Facebook’s silence. They want Mark to go on TV.” Others, chatting on the employee app Blind, labelled the situation “serious” and asked: “Is this how the downfall of Myspace happened? I’m just trying to figure out how worried I should actually be.” Yesterday the hashtag #WheresZuck began trending after Facebook users noted Zuckerberg hadn’t updated his profile page since March 2, while WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton said it was time to for users to delete their profiles. "			Celebrity Home Photos		 		Zuckerberg had not been seen at his California home	" British Culture Chairman Damian Collins has requested Zuckerberg to personally visit the UK Parliament for a grilling after his team provided “consistently misleading” answers on data protection. He blasted the California-based web giant for sending junior executives to previous hearings instead of clued-up company bosses on fake news – and demanded answers about “whether data had been taken without consent”. And Collins’ counterparts in the US are demanding likewise – Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee Russia investigation, says he wants Facebook to return to Capitol Hill for further questioning. However, it has been reported Zuckerberg will make a public statement tomorrow aimed at “regaining trust”.  "		The last time Zuckerberg posted on his Facebook page was March 2 before publishing a statement today	 			PA:Press Association		 		The parliamentary inquiry into fake news has called on Zuckerberg to give evidence	  		MPs are accusing the company of ‘misleading’ the committee in a previous hearing	" Good morning. Facebook lied to you. #WheresZuck — Misgivings  (@lacunalingua) March 20, 2018 I told you he was a Bond villain for our time. All the PR about his philanthropy was a smoke screen. And to think the tech press were bigging him up for a presidential campaign when he went walkabout USA lmao #WheresZuck — Theo (@tprstly) March 20, 2018 You know them kids who come to class 35 minutes late, like why even come to class. #WheresZuck — Grand Central (@blackallianxe) March 20, 2018 googleoff: all MOST READ IN NEWS  .rail__item-image "				HORROR FALL			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				TEEN REMANDED			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				BIG WIN JOY			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				FINAL STAGES			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				kill probe			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				COMMUNITY HEARTBROKEN			" .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide .swiper-wrapper .swiper-container .rail .{rail} .swiper-video-rail .{theme-slug} .col .sun-col-6 .sun-row .{row} .rail-video-index .sun-grid-container .sun-grid-container--{color} googleon: all Over the weekend, The Guardian revealed that London data firm Cambridge Analytica had been given access to info on millions on Facebook users. The data was “scraped” without the users’ permission by an organisation operating a rogue app disguised as a personality quiz. While nearly 300,000 users gave the app permission to use their personal details – it also secretly nabbed details about ALL of their Facebook friends too. This was then passed on to Cambridge Analytica, which used it in turn to help Donald Trump become US president, and to boost the Brexit campaign in 2016. We’ve asked Facebook’s press office if they have any information about the whereabouts of Mark Zuckerberg, and we’ll update this article with any response. Start of Brightcove Player  End of Brightcove Player We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at  tips@the-sun.co.uk  or call 0207 782 4368. You can   us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours. .article__content  "					California				 					US				 .tags .tags--article Comments     Comments .social social--article .article .col sun-col-4/6   most popular MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  HORROR FALL 			Woman watched in horror as husband fell to his death at Irish shopping centre		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  PAYMENT SWITCH 			Some Irish social welfare payments paid early due to June bank holiday		 .teaser__copy-container 				Money				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  Add video indicator if article has feature video. 'He deserved it' 			BGT viewers unhappy with judges for not giving Fr Ray standing ovation		 .teaser__copy-container 				TV & Showbiz				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  DIRTY SECRETS 			‘Stag’ men love watching other guys have sex with their wives…		 .teaser__copy-container 				Fabulous				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag .article-data__item .article-data__comment  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  TEEN REMANDED 			Boy accused of Ana murder further remanded as judge told case 'complicated'		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  Bog standard? 			Woman's bathroom selfie sends internet into meltdown - can you spot why?		 .teaser__copy-container 				Fabulous				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag .article-data__item .article-data__comment  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  phelan alive 			Corrie fans think Phelan isn't really dead despite being zipped into body bag		 .teaser__copy-container 				TV & Showbiz				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag .article-data__item .article-data__comment  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  BIG WIN JOY 			Winning €1m EuroMillions raffle prize was sold in Waterford shop		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  FINAL STAGES 			Freddie fails to get case booted with murder trial verdict due next month		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  EXCLUSIVE TAG kill probe 			Cops probe if tragic teen Cameron Reilly was strangled in a 'jealous rage'		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				" .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social .col sun-col-2 .sun-row  . sun-container__article-section theme-sport .main-content-wrap  .swiper-container .gallery-container  .swiper-caption .gallery-popup  The Irish Sun and carefully selected third parties use cookies on this site to improve performance, for analytics and for advertising. By browsing this site you are agreeing to this. For more information see our Privacy and Cookie policy Close .sun-container .theme Follow The Sun Services Sign Up To The Sun Terms and Conditions Editorial Complaints Clarifications and Corrections Syndication Advertising Contact Us Help Hub ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. ""The Sun"", ""Sun"", ""Sun Online"" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy . To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us . To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) .sun-row START Parse.ly Include: Standard END Parse.ly Include: Standard     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																													
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1011]  Facebook chief Zuckerberg admits mistakes over data use             News Sport Entertainment Business Lifestyle Culture Player TV Radio Weather More    Aertel Watch Live Lotto Apps Gaeilge RTÉ Archives Century Ireland Tech & Innovation RTÉ Orchestras About RTÉ RTÉ Shop RTÉ Brainstorm TRTÉ RTÉ Jr Blog  National Weather Warning  Ireland World Eighth Amendment Business Sport Politics Nuacht Programmes RTÉ Investigates Watch Live  Get updates from RTÉ Notifications on the latest stories and events, as they happen. Just hit 'Allow' on the next prompt Got it!  Facebook chief Zuckerberg admits mistakes over data use     CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the company will further restrict access to user data  Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has admitted mistakes and outlined steps to protect user data in light of the privacy scandal involving a data mining firm. Mr Zuckerberg broke more than four days of silence as he posted an update about the Cambridge Analytica scandal. He posted on his Facebook page that his company has a ""responsibility"" to protect its users' data, and ""if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you"". Mr Zuckerberg and Facebook's Chief Operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, have been quiet since the news broke on Friday that Cambridge Analytica may have used data improperly obtained from roughly 50 million Facebook users to try to sway elections. In his statement, Mr Zuckerberg said Facebook will ban developers who misused personal data and tell affected users. He also said the company will further restrict developer access to user data. In admitting it had ""made mistakes"", he said the ""most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago"". He said the company will investigate all apps that had access to large amounts of data before the changes made in 2014. Mr Zuckerberg also said that Facebook will show users a tool at the top of the news feed about how to delete third-party apps. Ms Sandberg said the company had ""spent the past few days working to get a fuller picture"", adding that they ""deeply regret that we didn't do enough"". Here’s the measures outlined. pic.twitter.com/XsqTWa07qx — Will Goodbody (@willgoodbody) March 21, 2018 Read more What is Cambridge Analytica? Time to reassess our relationship with social media Mistakes, responsibilities, promises... but no apology as such. #Zuckerberg statement visualised as a word cloud #facebook pic.twitter.com/dhGhV7okTb — Philip Bromwell (@philipbromwell) March 21, 2018 Earlier, the academic who developed the app used by Cambridge Analytica to harvest data said that he had no idea his work would be used in Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Alexandr Kogan, a psychology researcher at Cambridge University, told the BBC that both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica have tried to place the blame on him for violating the social media platform's terms of service, even though Cambridge Analytica ensured him that everything he did was legal. ""My view is that I'm being basically used as a scapegoat by both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica,"" he said. ""Honestly, we thought we were acting perfectly appropriately, we thought we were doing something that was really normal."" Authorities in Britain and the United States are investigating the alleged improper use of Facebook data by Cambridge Analytica, the UK-based political research firm. Meanwhile, Brazilian prosecutors have said they have opened an investigation into whether Cambridge Analytica acted illegally in Brazil.   Prosecutors for Brazil's Federal District, which includes Brasilia, the capital, said in a written statement that they will look into whether the firm used the data of millions of Brazilians to to illegally access personal data. Facebook shares have dropped some 9% since the revelations were first published, raising questions about whether social media sites are violating users' privacy. EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they ""ran all the digital campaign"" for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities. pic.twitter.com/kS0n88n5ud — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 The head of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, was suspended yesterday after Channel 4 News broadcast hidden camera footage of him suggesting the company could use young women to catch opposition politicians in compromising positions. Footage also showed Mr Nix bragging about the firm's pivotal role in the Trump campaign. Mr Nix said Cambridge Analytica handled ""all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting"" for the Trump campaign, and used emails with a ""self-destruct timer"" to make the firm's role more difficult to trace. ""There's no evidence, there's no paper trail, there's nothing,"" he said. In a statement, Cambridge Analytica's board said Mr Nix's comments ""do not represent the values or operations of the firm, and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation"". Facebook itself is drawing criticism from politicians on both sides of the Atlantic for its alleged failure to protect users' privacy. Meanwhile, a former Facebook employee described in detail how the social network's app developers were able to collect vast amounts of data without people's permission. Sandy Parakilas, who worked in policy compliance and data protection for Facebook between 2011 and 2012, told a UK parliamentary committee hearing that the company used users' personal data to entice developers to build apps and games such as Farmville. ""The real problem is that they allowed all of this personally identifiable data to pass out of their servers into the hands of a very unvetted set of people,"" Mr Parakilas said. ""Anyone can create a Facebook app,"" he told the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee. ""There are no background checks to making a Facebook app."" Facebook's settings at the time allowed app developers to access the personal data of not just the people who used their app, but all of their friends as well. ""It was your name, in some cases your email addresses, in some cases your private messages,"" Mr Parakilas claimed. ""They just basically allowed that to leave Facebook's servers intentionally and there weren't really controls once the data had left to make sure it was being used in an appropriate way."" More on News Science and Technology Business Technology Business technology Facebook Cambridge University Cambridge Analytica Aleksandr Kogan     More for you    Read News Sport Entertainment Lifestyle Culture Business Weather Gaeilge Tech & Innovation RTÉ Brainstorm Watch & Listen RTÉ Player RTÉ Player International RTÉ Live TV Radio RTÉ Services RTÉ Archives RTÉ Orchestras RTÉ Shop Century Ireland Lotto RTÉ Aertel Youth TRTÉ RTÉJr Help Contact Feedback Complaints Terms & Conditions Data Protection Privacy Statement Information Information About RTÉ License Fee Careers Annual Report Advertise with RTÉ 2rn SAORVIEW Newsletters Follow RTÉ  RTÉ.ie is the website of Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Ireland's National Public Service Broadcaster. RTÉ is not responsible for the content of external internet sites. Images courtesy of Inpho.ie and Getty Images © RTÉ 2018  RTÉ uses cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy More Info I Understand      "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1012] [if lt IE 7]>< xmlns=""http://www.w3.org/1999/x"" prefix="""" lang=""en-US"" class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7""> endif] [if (IE 7)&!(IEMobile) < xmlns=""http://www.w3.org/1999/x"" prefix="""" lang=""en-US"" class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8""> endif] [if (IE 8)&!(IEMobile) < xmlns=""http://www.w3.org/1999/x"" prefix="""" lang=""en-US"" class=""no-js lt-ie9""> endif] [if IE"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1013]  The above 3 meta tags *must* come first in the head; any other head content must come *after* these tags News From Ireland | Latest Irish News | Today FM CSS  JS   Facebook Pixel Code End Facebook Pixel Code adT:    Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) /27435881/TDFM_Out-Of-Page /27435881/TDFM_Spon_1x1 × News Sport Music Win add search open for different overlay  Close   	 	Today FM 	  Shows Trending News Sport Music Win Podcasts Search /27435881/TDFM_Head  		      			"  News News Facebook Chief Says Firm ""Made Mistakes"" Over Cambridge Analytica News Written By: Jack Quann Date: 21 Mar 2018 Tweet Mail Mark Zukerberg has outlined a timeline of events Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says his company ""made mistakes"" in relation to Cambridge Analytica. He's broken his silence over the apparent data breach, which is being investigated by authorities in Ireland, the EU, UK and US. UK-based data firm Cambridge Analytica, which was hired by Donald Trump's campaign team, is accused of using millions of Facebook profiles without authorisation to predict and influence the US election. The board of Cambridge Analytica announced yesterday it had suspended its CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation. In a statement posted on Facebook tonight, Mr Zuckerberg says: ""We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you."" Posting a timeline of events, he says that in 2013, a Cambridge University researcher named Aleksandr Kogan created a personality quiz app, which was installed ""by around 300,000 people who shared their data as well as some of their friends' data."" Mr Zuckerberg explains: ""In 2014, to prevent abusive apps, we announced that we were changing the entire platform to dramatically limit the data apps could access. ""Most importantly, apps like Kogan's could no longer ask for data about a person's friends unless their friends had also authorized the app."" Image: Facebook Then he says: ""In 2015, we learned from journalists at The Guardian that Kogan had shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. ""It is against our policies for developers to share data without people's consent, so we immediately banned Kogan's app from our platform, and demanded that Kogan and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that they had deleted all improperly acquired data. They provided these certifications."" Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg is pictured during a joint press conference on the sidelines of the G8 summit in Deauville, France in 2011 | Image: Orban Thierry/ABACA/PA Images He says the company then learned ""from The Guardian , The New York Times and Channel 4"" that Cambridge Analytica may not have deleted the data as they had certified. ""We immediately banned them from using any of our services. Cambridge Analytica claims they have already deleted the data and has agreed to a forensic audit by a firm we hired to confirm this. We're also working with regulators as they investigate what happened."" ""This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it. We need to fix that."" Share Tweet Email  /27435881/TDFM_Side_1 Browse by Category Trending Music Sport Podcasts News Win /27435881/TDFM_Side_2 Enjoying Today FM? Never miss out on your favourite show again Register with MYTODAY /27435881/TDFM_Side_3  You may also like Visa ""Service Disruption"" Hits Irish Customers News Tribunal Hears Callinan Told RTÉ Journalist McCabe Had Done 'Horrific Things' News Thunderstorm Warning Issued For 16 Counties News 2 Boy Appears In Court Charged With Ana Kriégel Murder News  DOWNLOAD! Have you downloaded our shiny new app? It’s like a teeny tiny website in your hand providing a great listening experience, content to read on the go and the ability to contact your favourite shows live on air. IOS Android  Shows Trending Music News Win Podcasts Videos About us Contact us Today FM Breaks Appliances Delivered Advertise with Us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright © 2018 Today FM  04:57:04 07:00:00  Overnight  "										All channels 									 										Now Playing 									  page load loop 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																								
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1014] Static common meta tag for all the views  Who is Alexander Nix, why has Cambridge Analytica's CEO been suspended and when was he secretly filmed? Jetpack Site Verification Tags Jump directly to the content  News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services. Follow The Sun Your Sun Sign in Editions UK Edition Scottish Sun Dream Team The Sun The Sun The Scottish Sun Dream Team Sun Bets Fabulous Sun Favourite Sun Motors Sun Bingo Sun Gifts News Corp WSJ.com New York Post The Australian News.com.au Storyful Harper Collins Realtor.com Services Sign Up To The Sun Terms and Conditions Editorial Complaints Clarifications and Corrections Syndication Advertising Contact Us Help Hub    Sign in Irish Sun UK Edition Scottish Sun Dream Team Search    Home Football Sport TV & Showbiz News Fabulous Money Motors Travel Tech Dear Deidre Puzzles   "								All Tech							 								Science							 								Phones & Gadgets							 								Gaming							" .swiper-wrapper .sub-nav__list  .swiper-container .{theme-slug}-secondary .sub-nav .col .sun-col-6 .no-gutters sun-row .no-gutters .sun-container .sub-nav__container .theme__background-color   Who is Alexander Nix, why has Cambridge Analytica’s CEO been suspended and when was he secretly filmed? An undercover investigation by Channel 4 recorded the data firm’s chief executive Alexander Nix suggesting controversial ways he could help a potential client. But his company denied engaging in ‘entrapment, bribes or so-called 'honeytraps’ in the course of its work. .article__header   .article__meta ALEXANDER Nix is at the heart of allegations that the firm he works for used the personal data of 50 million Facebook members to influence the US presidential election in 2016. "			EPA		 		Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix	" Who is Cambridge Analytica’s Alexander Nix? Why has Cambridge Analytica’s CEO been suspended? Nix was suspended “with immediate effect” from Cambridge Analytica on March 21 2018. His suspension came moments before Channel 4 News was due to air a second report about Cambridge Analytica’s inner workings. The company said a full investigation is pending. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement: “In view of the board, Mr Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 News do not represent the values or operations of the firm.” In the secret broadcasts, aired on Channel 4, Mr Nix said he met Donald Trump “many times”. When was Alexander Nix secretly filmed? Alexander Nix was secretly filmed at London hotels over four months, from November 2017 to January 2018 by an undercover reporter for Channel 4 News. The reporter posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. "			Channel 4 News		 		Channel 4 News expose Mr Nix for revealing how they could entrap politicians and influence elections	 googleoff: all MOST READ IN NEWS  .rail__item-image 				DIAL IT DOWN			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				ZUCKED OFF			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				ELECTRIC DREAMS			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				PRIVATE GAME TIME			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				WATCH IT			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide  .rail__item-image 				snap happy			 .rail__item-content .rail__item .swiper-slide .swiper-wrapper .swiper-container .rail .{rail} .swiper-video-rail .{theme-slug} .col .sun-col-6 .sun-row .{row} .rail-video-index .sun-grid-container .sun-grid-container--{color} googleon: all What has Alexander Nix said about the sting? We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at  tips@the-sun.co.uk  or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for   too. Click here to   your.   .article__content  					Donald Trump				 					Explainers				 					Facebook				 					Tech Explainers				 .tags .tags--article Comments     Comments .social social--article .article .col sun-col-4/6   most popular MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  HORROR FALL 			Woman watched in horror as husband fell to his death at Irish shopping centre		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  PAYMENT SWITCH 			Some Irish social welfare payments paid early due to June bank holiday		 .teaser__copy-container 				Money				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  Add video indicator if article has feature video. 'He deserved it' 			BGT viewers unhappy with judges for not giving Fr Ray standing ovation		 .teaser__copy-container 				TV & Showbiz				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  DIRTY SECRETS 			‘Stag’ men love watching other guys have sex with their wives…		 .teaser__copy-container 				Fabulous				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag .article-data__item .article-data__comment  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  TEEN REMANDED 			Boy accused of Ana murder further remanded as judge told case 'complicated'		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  Bog standard? 			Woman's bathroom selfie sends internet into meltdown - can you spot why?		 .teaser__copy-container 				Fabulous				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag .article-data__item .article-data__comment  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  phelan alive 			Corrie fans think Phelan isn't really dead despite being zipped into body bag		 .teaser__copy-container 				TV & Showbiz				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag .article-data__item .article-data__comment  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  BIG WIN JOY 			Winning €1m EuroMillions raffle prize was sold in Waterford shop		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  FINAL STAGES 			Freddie fails to get case booted with murder trial verdict due next month		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				 .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social MEDIUM TEASER - 300PX TEASER IMAGE  EXCLUSIVE TAG kill probe 			Cops probe if tragic teen Cameron Reilly was strangled in a 'jealous rage'		 .teaser__copy-container 				News				" .article-data__item .article-data__tag  .article-data__item article-data__share .article-data teaser__social .col sun-col-2 .sun-row  . sun-container__article-section theme-sport .main-content-wrap  .swiper-container .gallery-container  .swiper-caption .gallery-popup  The Irish Sun and carefully selected third parties use cookies on this site to improve performance, for analytics and for advertising. By browsing this site you are agreeing to this. For more information see our Privacy and Cookie policy Close .sun-container .theme Follow The Sun Services Sign Up To The Sun Terms and Conditions Editorial Complaints Clarifications and Corrections Syndication Advertising Contact Us Help Hub ©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. ""The Sun"", ""Sun"", ""Sun Online"" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited's Standard Terms and Conditions in accordance with our Privacy & Cookie Policy . To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our Syndication site. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries Contact Us . To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) .sun-row START Parse.ly Include: Standard END Parse.ly Include: Standard     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1015] PUBLIC ""-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"" ""http://www.w3.org/TR/x1/DTD/x1-transitional.dtd""  /4844766/Entertainment.ie/Trending/Trending_OutOfPage 1. Header (including ads) START Parse.ly Include: Standard END Parse.ly Include: Standard   Log in   /4844766/Entertainment.ie/Trending/Trending_Top  2. Navigation 3. Content area 3.1 Character Invasion /4844766/Entertainment.ie/CharInvasion/CI_TopLeft /4844766/Entertainment.ie/CharInvasion/CI_TopRight /4844766/Entertainment.ie/CharInvasion/CI_BottomLeft /4844766/Entertainment.ie/CharInvasion/CI_BottomRight 3.1. Breadcrumb Home Trending The co-founder of Whatsapp is urging people to delete Facebook 3.2. Main Column (wide)  The co-founder of Whatsapp is urging people to delete Facebook wrapper element for the large image ""previous page"" action close minigallery Share with Facebook                 In case you've been living under a rock for the past few days, the blowback from revelations involving Facebook, a shady company called Cambridge Analytica, and the possibility that democracy as we know it is under serious threat are beginning to snap into focus for everyone. Since the news broke - and it's still coming, by all accounts - of Facebook's involvement in all of this, there's been growing calls to abandon the social media platform as a whole. Last night, however, saw one of the most high-profile and deeply involved parties in Facebook history - Brian Acton, the co-founder of Whatsapp - get involved. It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 For those who don't know, Whatsapp was created by Jan Koum and Brian Acton and was bought by Facebook in 2014 for a total of $14 BILLION. It's not known whether or not Acton is still involved with Facebook or Whatsapp, however according to a report by Wired , Acton invested $50 million into Signal - which is essentially a Whatsapp alternative. Acton isn't the only person who's spoken out about Facebook who's had previous dealings with them. An early investor in Facebook, Roger McNamee, pointed out that although Facebook didn't ""set out to increase political polarization and empower bad actors to undermine democracy,"" the outcome of what happened with Trump and the US election was ""inevitable."" Not only that, Chamath Palihapitiya - who was once the Head of Growth for Facebook - said that the social media platform had ""created tools that are ripping apart the social fabric of how society works,"" and that he was ""incredibly guilty"" about his time working there. So, yeah, maybe it's time we all ditched Facebook. Vero, anyone?   Via Twitter  Subscribe on       Share with Facebook                 Suggested Watch: The Bad Lip Reading version of Mark Zuckerberg's testimony will make you cry with laughter Facebook has introduced a new feature which is going to annoy more people than help them WhatsApp is trying out a new feature that could cause quite a bit of beef in your group chats Story by | | Trending Previous PIC: Elizabeth Olsen calls out Empire's... View all Next Lidl Ireland had the perfect sympathetic... Comments Log in to leave a comment Modal content When connecting your Facebook account to entertainment.ie to comment, we need to obtain permission to collect your associated Facebook name, email address and IP address. Why do we need this information? Comments on entertainment.ie are moderated. If a comment breaks our house rules we may need to remove a comment or block a user from commenting in the future. We need this account information to provide this service. You can delete this data from entertainment.ie any time. I Agree No Thanks Login or register to leave a comment Enter your email: Enter Password: Lost Your Password?  /id=""panel-logins"" /id=""comments"" 3.3. Right Column /4844766/Entertainment.ie/Trending/Trending_RightSidebarTop  Movie News First images emerge of Shia LaBeouf playing his own father in 'Honey Boy' Trailer for Idris Elba's directorial debut 'Yardie' lands online Taika Waititi will play Hitler - yes, Adolf Hitler - in upcoming anti-war satire 'Jojo Rabbit' 'Peppermint' trailer showcases Jennifer Garner going full Linda Hamilton circa Terminator 2 Jason Momoa flies away from 'The Crow' reboot Chris Pratt will not accept your hatred over the outcome of 'Avengers: Infinity War' /4844766/Entertainment.ie/Trending/Trending_Bottom1 Start Most Viewed Trending Widget Cached - Time: 02/06/2018 04:52:09 Trending Doug Stanhope talks whether it's harder to be a comedian in today's PC culture Hulk Hogan made an embarrassing mistake by thinking Bam Margera was dead on Twitter Watch: Please enjoy this little girl realising she's not going to the Royal Wedding End Most Viewed Trending Widget Cached - Time: 02/06/2018 04:52:09 4. Footer include virtual=""/ssi/includes/social-sticky-panel.asp"" TV TV Listings What's On Now Highlights Tonight's TV Netflix Soap Watch Cinema Cinema Listings Movie Reviews Trailers Movie News Coming Soon Movie Features Music Music News Gig Reviews Festivals Albums     What's On Music Comedy Theatre & Dance Clubbing Special Screenings Trending Games Videos Competitions Celebrity Celebrity Gossip Photos Red Carpet eTV Photos Photo Galleries Popular Photos More… Lotto Lotto Archives Horoscopes Weather Our Team  Meet all the team Mobile Apps  Read More Connect Join us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join us on Instagram Contact Us | Advertise | Submit Listing | Partner Login | Reporting a Problem | Feedback | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | Site Directory  2016 edit {end} 2016 edit "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1017] Liberals paid $100,000 in 2016 to Cambridge Analytica whistleblower | The Star react-empty: 2 react-empty: 4 react-empty: 6 react-empty: 7 react-empty: 8 [if lt IE 9]>  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1018] B.C. privacy office to probe political use of personal Facebook info | CBC News   Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows British Columbia news B.C. privacy office to probe political use of personal Facebook info ""We’re the only jurisdiction in Canada that has the ability to investigate political parties,"" acting B.C. Information and Privacy Commissioner Drew McArthur says. Victoria company a focus of province’s privacy commissioner investigation CBC News Posted: Mar 21, 2018 3:06 PM PT | Last Updated: March 21 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak U.K. committee wants to hear Facebook's Zuckerberg on fake news, data supplied to Trump campaign Who is Christopher Wylie? How a B.C. high school dropout set out on path to political data harvesting Facebook whistleblower pushed data-mining boundaries in Canada: source Meet Trump backer Robert Mercer, the man behind Cambridge Analytica Find more popular stories More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1019]    COMMUNITY NEWS Diaspora Canada India South Asia World EDITORIAL Pradip Rodrigues Sabrina Almeida BUSINESS SCI-TECH ENTERTAINMENT LIFESTYLE Art/Culture/Books Automobiles Books Education Employment Fashion Food Health Living Restaurants SPORTS Athletics Badminton Cricket Football Golf Hockey Motorsports OtherSports Tennis COMMUNITY May 31, 2018 Largest Halal grocery store to open in Mississauga this July Why rental basements should be registered May 31, 2018 Brampton launches aggressive drive to end illegal signs on city property Ontario Gurdwaras Committee raises concerns about Indian govt. officials May 31, 2018 If PCs get elected, $1 beer is on the menu NEWS Diaspora Canada India South Asia World EDITORIAL Pradip Rodrigues Sabrina Almeida May 31, 2018 The nomination process is broke, what’s Plan B? May 24, 2018 Empowering South Asian girls requires a cultural shift in mindset May 18, 2018 All politicians should vow to take care of our own May 11, 2018 A few thoughts and observations on politics and truck drivers May 18, 2018 The truth about lying May 11, 2018 How will you celebrate mom? May 4, 2018 Opinion like advice is often unwarranted, stop giving it! April 27, 2018 When tragedy strikes… how do you respond? BUSINESS SCI-TECH ENTERTAINMENT LIFESTYLE Art/Culture/Books Automobiles Books Education Employment Fashion Food Health Living Restaurants SPORTS Athletics Badminton Cricket Football Golf Hockey Motorsports OtherSports Tennis More COMMUNITY NEWS EDITORIAL BUSINESS SCI-TECH ENTERTAINMENT LIFESTYLE SPORTS  Business/Economy ‘Delete’ Facebook, says WhatsApp co-founder amid Cambridge Analytica scandal March 21, 2018 Views: 33 San Francisco, March 21 (IANS) Brian Acton, co-founder of WhatsApp, late on Tuesday asked users to “delete” the social media platform, Facebook, amid alleged data leakage of its users for political purposes. “It is time. #deletefacebook,” Brian Acton tweeted to more than 23,000 of his followers. WhatsApp was acquired by Facebook in 2014. Facebook is facing a major backlash after reports emerged that the political data analytics firm, Cambridge Analytica, accessed the data of its 50 million users without their permission. The company received the user data from a Facebook app years ago that purported to be a psychological research tool, however, the firm was not authorised to have that information. Earlier on Tuesday, UK’s data protection watchdog sought a court warrant to search the London headquarters of the political data analytics consultancy that worked with Donald Trump’s election team and allegedly harvested Facebook profiles of US voters to influence their choices at the ballot box.   The UK Information Commissioner also ordered the auditors hired by Facebook to stand down when they visited the Cambridge Analytica headquarters. Meanwhile, lawmakers from the US and the UK have called for action following the reports of the data leak of the Facebook users. Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook bought WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014 but Acton remained with the company for several years before quitting to start “Signal Foundation” earlier in 2018. Last month, he invested $50 million into “Signal”, an independent alternative to hugely-popular WhatsApp. Another WhatsApp co-founder, Jan Koum, still leads the company and sits on Facebook’s board. –IANS ksc/and/vm analytica cambridge delete facebook founder scandal whatsapp Comments: 0 Cancel Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked with *  DIGITAL EDITION ADVERTISE ARTWORK SUBMISSION CAREERS CONTACT DIGITAL EDITION RSS FEEDS © 2017 Can-India News a division of World Media Corp (Canada) Inc. All rights reserved. Can-India News   I   Privacy Policy    "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1020] paulirish.com/2008/conditional-stylesheets-vs-css-hacks-answer-neither/ [if lt IE 7]> < class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7"" lang=""en""> endif] [if IE 7 < class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8"" lang=""en""> endif] [if IE 8 < class=""no-js lt-ie9"" lang=""en""> "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1021]   [if lte IE 8 ]> 		 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																				
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1022]    How Cambridge Analytica’s use of 50 million Facebook users’ data turned into a scandal - National | Globalnews.ca    Hack to fix inline-block space issue. http://css-tricks.com/fighting-the-space-between-inline-block-elements/ 			  Select Location Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg News Weather National Video Contests Traffic  TV Global National Global National The West Block The Morning Show More … Personalities Video Centre  Go Ad Choices 					 World Canada Local News Weather National Video Contests Traffic Politics Smart Living Money Entertainment Health Commentary Trending Sports Video Contests Live Tech  horizontal bar 0 								Ad Choices 			 /.breaking-news-site /.longform template check Facebook data scandal /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar How Cambridge Analytica’s use of 50 million Facebook users’ data turned into a scandal Post author Image Post Author Credit Author position  WATCH: Branding expert Tony Chapman on Facebook's response to the data breach and if the brand can recover from the controversy    X  - +  			"© 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc."		 Report an error 			 no more stories returned 2016 Presidential election Aleksandr Kogan Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica Facebook Data Analytics Donald Trump Donald Trump campaign Facebook data scandal presidential election Trump campaign U.S. election   										Money									 									The big risk from Trump's tariffs is Canadian firms scrapping their investment plans								  										Economy									 									"What U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs mean for Canadians — and their wallets"								  										Consumer									 									"EXCLUSIVE: Liberals ignored green energy advice that could've saved Ontarians billions, lead engineer says"								  										Canada									 									"Coalition forces in Syria, Iraq targeted three Canadians, secret document says"								  										Canada									 									"A century after suffrage, where will the fight for political equality go in the next 100 years?"								  										Canada									 									"When he was 20, he fled Canada to join ISIS. Now he's believed dead and his family says it didn't see the signs"								  										Canada									 									"Canada's last military prison costs $2M a year. About half the time, it has no prisoners"								  										Canada									 									NDP tied with PCs as Ford's Tories tumble in Ontario election: Ipsos poll								  FLYERS More Weekly Flyers  Comments Want to discuss? Please read our Commenting Policy first.  /.weather-ad Countdown Live Stream Widget Sidebar Embed 1 Custom Sidebar Promo Banner /.sidebar-ad  Custom Callout Widget Sidebar Embed 2 Add event link In Other News Widget  									 									"Donald Trump takes another swipe at Canada’s ‘trade barriers,’ treatment of U.S. farmers"								 										182929									   									 									ISIS supporter admits plot to attack Prince George at school								 										78085									   									 									New York Post sparks outrage with 'sexist' cover mocking Kim Kardashian's meeting with Trump								 										64463									   									 									"Canada retaliates against U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs, announces dollar-for-dollar ‘countermeasures’"								 										31594									   									 									Family of man shot dead by police in his own garage awarded $4 by jury								 										29849									   /.featured-stories   									Goose attack east of Edmonton caught on video								   									New body cam footage shows police threatening to ‘drop’ woman during violent arrest in New Jersey								   									Matthew Staikos was intended target of deadly Yorkville shooting: police								   									New Jersey police officer punches female beachgoer in head several times during arrest								   									Destabilizing economic moves ahead of key G7 summit								"  /.featured-stories  /.wells /.contain Jump to a Region Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg /.region-nav /.region-names Connect           /.social Global News Global News About Us Privacy Policy Principles & Practices Copyright Corus Entertainment Advertise Advertising Standard Terms Terms of Use Branded Content Open Data /.sections © 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc. Corus News. All rights reserved. "					 wpcom_wp_footer   End SiteCatalyst code version: JS-2.6.0.  
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1023]    Mark Zuckerberg breaks silence on Facebook data scandal, vows change - National | Globalnews.ca    Hack to fix inline-block space issue. http://css-tricks.com/fighting-the-space-between-inline-block-elements/ "			  Select Location Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg News Weather National Video Contests Traffic  TV Global National Global National The West Block The Morning Show More … Personalities Video Centre  Go Ad Choices 					 World Canada Local News Weather National Video Contests Traffic Politics Smart Living Money Entertainment Health Commentary Trending Sports Video Contests Live Tech  horizontal bar 0 								Ad Choices 			" /.breaking-news-site /.longform template check Tech /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar Mark Zuckerberg breaks silence on Facebook data scandal, vows change Post author Image Post Author Credit Author position  WATCH ABOVE: Facebook has lost almost $50 million in stock market value in the last two days and is facing increased pressure over its data mining scandal including government investigations.    X  - +  "			"© 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc."		 Report an error 			 no more stories returned Facebook Facebook Apps Facebook Cambridge Analytica Facebook data scandal facebook privacy concerns Mark Zuckerberg mark zuckerberg data Mark Zuckerberg Facebook mark zuckerberg facebook apology   										Money									 									The big risk from Trump's tariffs is Canadian firms scrapping their investment plans								  										Economy									 									"What U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs mean for Canadians — and their wallets"								  										Consumer									 									"EXCLUSIVE: Liberals ignored green energy advice that could've saved Ontarians billions, lead engineer says"								  										Canada									 									"Coalition forces in Syria, Iraq targeted three Canadians, secret document says"								  										Canada									 									"A century after suffrage, where will the fight for political equality go in the next 100 years?"								  										Canada									 									"When he was 20, he fled Canada to join ISIS. Now he's believed dead and his family says it didn't see the signs"								  										Canada									 									"Canada's last military prison costs $2M a year. About half the time, it has no prisoners"								  										Canada									 									NDP tied with PCs as Ford's Tories tumble in Ontario election: Ipsos poll								  FLYERS More Weekly Flyers  Comments Want to discuss? Please read our Commenting Policy first.  /.weather-ad Countdown Live Stream Widget Sidebar Embed 1 Custom Sidebar Promo Banner /.sidebar-ad  Custom Callout Widget Sidebar Embed 2 Add event link In Other News Widget  									 									"Donald Trump takes another swipe at Canada’s ‘trade barriers,’ treatment of U.S. farmers"								 										182929									   									 									ISIS supporter admits plot to attack Prince George at school								 										78085									   									 									New York Post sparks outrage with 'sexist' cover mocking Kim Kardashian's meeting with Trump								 										64463									   									 									"Canada retaliates against U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs, announces dollar-for-dollar ‘countermeasures’"								 										31594									   									 									Family of man shot dead by police in his own garage awarded $4 by jury								 										29849									   /.featured-stories   									Goose attack east of Edmonton caught on video								   									New body cam footage shows police threatening to ‘drop’ woman during violent arrest in New Jersey								   									Matthew Staikos was intended target of deadly Yorkville shooting: police								   									New Jersey police officer punches female beachgoer in head several times during arrest								   									Destabilizing economic moves ahead of key G7 summit								"  /.featured-stories  /.wells /.contain Jump to a Region Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg /.region-nav /.region-names Connect           /.social Global News Global News About Us Privacy Policy Principles & Practices Copyright Corus Entertainment Advertise Advertising Standard Terms Terms of Use Branded Content Open Data /.sections © 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc. Corus News. All rights reserved. "					 wpcom_wp_footer    End SiteCatalyst code version: JS-2.6.0.  
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1024]    Here’s what the Liberals paid Cambridge Analytica’s Chris Wylie to do — and what they say he didn’t do - National | Globalnews.ca    Hack to fix inline-block space issue. http://css-tricks.com/fighting-the-space-between-inline-block-elements/ 			  Select Location Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg News Weather National Video Contests Traffic  TV Global National Global National The West Block The Morning Show More … Personalities Video Centre  Go Ad Choices 					 World Canada Local News Weather National Video Contests Traffic Politics Smart Living Money Entertainment Health Commentary Trending Sports Video Contests Live Tech  horizontal bar 0 								Ad Choices 			 /.breaking-news-site /.longform template check Canada /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar Here’s what the Liberals paid Cambridge Analytica’s Chris Wylie to do — and what they say he didn’t do Post Author Credit Author position  WATCH ABOVE: Whistleblower Chris Wylie worked for Trudeau government    X  - +  			"© 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc."		 Report an error 			 no more stories returned Brexit Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica Trump Canadian politcs Christopher Wylie Donald Trump Justin Trudeau Liberal Research Bureau Scott Brison Trudeau data mining   										Money									 									The big risk from Trump's tariffs is Canadian firms scrapping their investment plans								  										Economy									 									"What U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs mean for Canadians — and their wallets"								  										Consumer									 									"EXCLUSIVE: Liberals ignored green energy advice that could've saved Ontarians billions, lead engineer says"								  										Canada									 									"Coalition forces in Syria, Iraq targeted three Canadians, secret document says"								  										Canada									 									"A century after suffrage, where will the fight for political equality go in the next 100 years?"								  										Canada									 									"When he was 20, he fled Canada to join ISIS. Now he's believed dead and his family says it didn't see the signs"								  										Canada									 									"Canada's last military prison costs $2M a year. About half the time, it has no prisoners"								  										Canada									 									NDP tied with PCs as Ford's Tories tumble in Ontario election: Ipsos poll								  FLYERS More Weekly Flyers  Comments Want to discuss? Please read our Commenting Policy first.  /.weather-ad Countdown Live Stream Widget Sidebar Embed 1 Custom Sidebar Promo Banner /.sidebar-ad  Custom Callout Widget Sidebar Embed 2 Add event link In Other News Widget  									 									"Donald Trump takes another swipe at Canada’s ‘trade barriers,’ treatment of U.S. farmers"								 										182929									   									 									ISIS supporter admits plot to attack Prince George at school								 										78085									   									 									New York Post sparks outrage with 'sexist' cover mocking Kim Kardashian's meeting with Trump								 										64463									   									 									"Canada retaliates against U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs, announces dollar-for-dollar ‘countermeasures’"								 										31594									   									 									Family of man shot dead by police in his own garage awarded $4 by jury								 										29849									   /.featured-stories   									Goose attack east of Edmonton caught on video								   									New body cam footage shows police threatening to ‘drop’ woman during violent arrest in New Jersey								   									Matthew Staikos was intended target of deadly Yorkville shooting: police								   									New Jersey police officer punches female beachgoer in head several times during arrest								   									Destabilizing economic moves ahead of key G7 summit								"  /.featured-stories  /.wells /.contain Jump to a Region Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg /.region-nav /.region-names Connect           /.social Global News Global News About Us Privacy Policy Principles & Practices Copyright Corus Entertainment Advertise Advertising Standard Terms Terms of Use Branded Content Open Data /.sections © 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc. Corus News. All rights reserved. "					 wpcom_wp_footer   End SiteCatalyst code version: JS-2.6.0.  
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1025]   [if lte IE 8 ]> 		 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																				
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1026] 'This Wild West era's got to end': Facebook breach energizes U.K. lawmakers | CBC News   Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows World news 'This Wild West era's got to end': Facebook breach energizes U.K. lawmakers It is delicious irony that to uncover some of our worst fears about online data privacy and misinformation, it took old-fashioned journalists — the venerated British press — and an equally old-fashioned whistleblower. Media breaks through fears about online data privacy in Cambridge Analytica case where MPs, regulators hadn’t CBC News Posted: Mar 21, 2018 8:41 PM ET | Last Updated: March 22 Nahlah Ayed Foreign Correspondent Nahlah Ayed is a CBC News correspondent based in London. A veteran of foreign reportage, she's covered major world events and spent nearly a decade working in and covering conflicts across the Middle East. Earlier, Ayed was a parliamentary reporter for The Canadian Press. More by this author Video by Nahlah Ayed CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback How to protect your personal info on Facebook Whistleblower says he would testify about Cambridge Analytica Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook made mistakes on CA Facebook whistleblower pushed data-mining boundaries in Canada: source Find more popular stories More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1027] Facebook Under Investigation for Possible Privacy Violations | Mississauga | insauga.com       Header Advertising div class=""block-inner"" /109849061/Leaderboard /div /block-inner, /block Header  Advertise   /header-content /header-wrapper Secondary Links div class=""block-inner"" Home News Top 5 QuickBite News Food New Openings Lifestyle Videos Business Real Estate History Watercooler Events Contribute My account Create Account Article Event Place /div /block-inner, /block Sub Header Advertising div class=""block-inner"" Latest News     /div /block-inner, /block Middle Wrapper Facebook Under Investigation for Possible Privacy Violations by Christine Sharma on March 21, 2018 in News Business Tweet  Facebook is under fire after recent allegations of unauthorized access and use of people’s Facebook profiles, said the federal privacy commissioner on Wednesday. /109849061/contentrecangle If you’re a Facebook user and these allegations prove true, your data might have been shared with third party organizations. We have received a complaint against Facebook in relation to allegations involving Cambridge Analytica and have therefore opened a formal investigation,” said Commissioner Daniel Therrien in a recent statement. “The first step will be to confirm with the company whether the personal information of Facebook users in Canada was affected.” Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have a relationship that dates back some years, which is where this scandal might have started. According to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in a recent statement: /109849061/Insauga_ContentRectangle_Bottom_640x280 In 2013, a Cambridge University researcher named Aleksandr Kogan created a personality quiz app. It was installed by around 300,000 people who shared their data as well as some of their friends’ data. Given the way our platform worked at the time this meant Kogan was able to access tens of millions of their friends’ data.” Though Zuckerberg says that in 2014, Facebook took action to ensure that apps like Kogan’s could no longer take people’s sensitive data unless someone had actually authorized the app and the developers had Facebook’s approval, their efforts might have been futile. In 2015, we learned from journalists at The Guardian that Kogan had shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica,” said Zuckerberg. Kogan’s app was subsequently banned and both Kogan and Cambridge Analytica were required to delete all of the data, according to Zuckerberg. But it didn’t end there. Last week, we learned from The Guardian, The New York Times and Channel 4 that Cambridge Analytica may not have deleted the data as they had certified,” said Zuckerberg. We immediately banned them from using any of our services. Cambridge Analytica claims they have already deleted the data and has agreed to a forensic audit by a firm we hired to confirm this. We’re also working with regulators as they investigate what happened.” According to Zuckerberg, Facebook is taking further action on their end to protect people’s private information. The social media giant is investigating any apps with access to large amounts of information, auditing apps with “suspicious activity”, banning developers that don’t agree to the audit, restricting developers’ data access, and putting a tool at the top of the news feed page where users can revoke apps’ access to their data easily. We already have a tool to do this in your privacy settings, and now we will put this tool at the top of your News Feed to make sure everyone sees it,” said Zuckerberg. The federal privacy commissioner’s investigation is set to examine Facebook’s compliance with Canada’s federal private sector privacy law, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act ( ). The allegations we’ve seen in media reports raise extremely important privacy questions. The digital world, and social media in particular, have become entrenched in our daily lives and people want their rights to be respected.” The Information Commissioner’s Office has an ongoing related investigation, according to the federal privacy commissioner. We will remain in contact with the office and will work with other data protection authorities as appropriate. Ultimately, our goal is to ensure that the privacy rights of Canadian Facebook users are protected,” says Commissioner Therrien. These allegations are concerning for anyone who uses any kind of social media, where private information can so easily be made public, and third parties can have access to what users believe to be confidential. If true, the allegations raise a major challenge for privacy rights. We have recommended strengthening Canada’s private sector law in order to help strengthen consumer trust,” said Commissioner Therrien. Here is Zuckerberg’s full statement: /109849061/Insauga_MediumRectangle_B_300x250 /109849061/Insauga_MediumRectangle_C_300x250  /node-inner, /node googleoff: all div class=""block-inner"" Trending googleoff: all   googleon: all /div /block-inner, /block div class=""block-inner"" Related googleoff: all   googleon: all /div /block-inner, /block div class=""block-inner"" googleoff: all Your Comments googleon: all /div /block-inner, /block googleon: all googleoff: all /109849061/mediumrectangle /block-inner, /left-block Top 5  El Mariachi Tacos and Churros  View all top 5 /block-inner, /left-block Recent Top 5    View all top 5 /block-inner, /left-block New Openings  It’s not too late to work on that summer body.  View all new openings /block-inner, /left-block Poll What's your Caribbean restaurant in Mississauga? Choices Charlie’s Sunrise Calabash Bara’s Leelas Potluck Shandra’s Island Palace  /block-inner, /left-block googleon: all /middle-wrapper Footer User Regions div class=""block-inner"" Mississauga Home News Top 5 Quickbite News Food New Openings Lifestyle Videos Business Real Estate History Watercooler Events /div /block-inner, /block div class=""block-inner"" insauga About Top 5 and Article Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Contact /div /block-inner, /block div class=""block-inner"" Contribute My account Create Account Article Event Place /div /block-inner, /block div class=""block-inner"" Connect /div /block-inner, /block Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo div class=""block-inner"" Location Mississauga Brampton Halton /div /block-inner, /block End of Bottom User Regions The All Knowing All Seeing Footer Block googleoff: all div class=""block-inner"" Copyright © 2018. Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 2.5 Canada License or any later version. Comments and entries represent the viewpoints of the individual and no one else. /div /block-inner, /block googleon: all /footer-content /footer /footer-wrapper /page-wrapper  Page cached by Boost @ 2018-06-01 09:49:31, expires @ 2018-06-02 09:49:31 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1028] Your letters: Leaving Facebook for the real world takes courage and resolve | The Star react-empty: 2 react-empty: 4 react-empty: 6 react-empty: 7 react-empty: 8 [if lt IE 9]>  																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1029]    Zuckerberg apologizes for Facebook data scandal, suggests it may be time to regulate internet - National | Globalnews.ca    Hack to fix inline-block space issue. http://css-tricks.com/fighting-the-space-between-inline-block-elements/ "			  Select Location Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg News Weather National Video Contests Traffic  TV Global National Global National The West Block The Morning Show More … Personalities Video Centre  Go Ad Choices 					 World Canada Local News Weather National Video Contests Traffic Politics Smart Living Money Entertainment Health Commentary Trending Sports Video Contests Live Tech  horizontal bar 0 								Ad Choices 			" /.breaking-news-site /.longform template check Politics /.meta-bar-time-group /.meta-bar Zuckerberg apologizes for Facebook data scandal, suggests it may be time to regulate internet Post Author Credit Author position  WATCH ABOVE: 'This was clearly a mistake': Zuckerberg on Cambridge Analytica    X  - +  "			"© 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc."		 Report an error 			 no more stories returned Cambridge Analytica Facebook Facebook Apps Facebook Cambridge Analytica Facebook data scandal facebook privacy concerns Mark Zuckerberg Mark Zuckerberg CNN mark zuckerberg data Mark Zuckerberg Facebook mark zuckerberg facebook apology   										Money									 									The big risk from Trump's tariffs is Canadian firms scrapping their investment plans								  										Economy									 									"What U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs mean for Canadians — and their wallets"								  										Consumer									 									"EXCLUSIVE: Liberals ignored green energy advice that could've saved Ontarians billions, lead engineer says"								  										Canada									 									"Coalition forces in Syria, Iraq targeted three Canadians, secret document says"								  										Canada									 									"A century after suffrage, where will the fight for political equality go in the next 100 years?"								  										Canada									 									"When he was 20, he fled Canada to join ISIS. Now he's believed dead and his family says it didn't see the signs"								  										Canada									 									"Canada's last military prison costs $2M a year. About half the time, it has no prisoners"								  										Canada									 									NDP tied with PCs as Ford's Tories tumble in Ontario election: Ipsos poll								  FLYERS More Weekly Flyers  Comments Want to discuss? Please read our Commenting Policy first.  /.weather-ad Countdown Live Stream Widget Sidebar Embed 1 Custom Sidebar Promo Banner /.sidebar-ad  Custom Callout Widget Sidebar Embed 2 Add event link In Other News Widget  									 									"Donald Trump takes another swipe at Canada’s ‘trade barriers,’ treatment of U.S. farmers"								 										182929									   									 									ISIS supporter admits plot to attack Prince George at school								 										78085									   									 									New York Post sparks outrage with 'sexist' cover mocking Kim Kardashian's meeting with Trump								 										64463									   									 									"Canada retaliates against U.S. steel, aluminum tariffs, announces dollar-for-dollar ‘countermeasures’"								 										31594									   									 									Family of man shot dead by police in his own garage awarded $4 by jury								 										29849									   /.featured-stories   									Goose attack east of Edmonton caught on video								   									New body cam footage shows police threatening to ‘drop’ woman during violent arrest in New Jersey								   									Matthew Staikos was intended target of deadly Yorkville shooting: police								   									New Jersey police officer punches female beachgoer in head several times during arrest								   									Destabilizing economic moves ahead of key G7 summit								"  /.featured-stories  /.wells /.contain Jump to a Region Barrie BC Calgary Durham Edmonton Guelph Halifax Hamilton Kingston Kitchener Lethbridge London Montreal New Brunswick Okanagan Ottawa Peterborough Regina Saskatoon Toronto Winnipeg /.region-nav /.region-names Connect           /.social Global News Global News About Us Privacy Policy Principles & Practices Copyright Corus Entertainment Advertise Advertising Standard Terms Terms of Use Branded Content Open Data /.sections © 2018 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc. Corus News. All rights reserved. "					 wpcom_wp_footer   End SiteCatalyst code version: JS-2.6.0.  
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1030] Chris Wylie says he would testify in U.S., U.K. about Cambridge Analytica | CBC News   Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Technology & Science news Chris Wylie says he would testify in U.S., U.K. about Cambridge Analytica Chris Wylie, the Canadian data scientist who revealed information about how Cambridge Analytica gathered data about Facebook users, tells CBC News he wants to testify in the U.S. and the U.K. about social media's threat to elections and democratic institutions. Canadian data scientist at heart of Facebook controversy says if asked he would testify in Canada, too CBC News Posted: Mar 21, 2018 11:00 PM ET | Last Updated: April 24 With files from The Canadian Press and The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback 'This Wild West era's got to end': Facebook breach energizes U.K. lawmakers How to protect your personal info on Facebook 'Major breach of trust': Zuckerberg says Facebook made mistakes on Cambridge Analytica Facebook, Cambridge Analytica sued in U.S. by users over data harvesting U.K. committee wants to hear Facebook's Zuckerberg on fake news, data supplied to Trump campaign Find more popular stories More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1031] Zuckerberg: I haven't seen a 'meaningful number of people' deleting Facebook accounts react-empty: 6 Yahoo Search Search Skip to Navigation Skip to Market Summary Skip to Main Content Skip to Related Content Sign in react-text: 10 Finance /react-text react-text: 18 Watchlists /react-text react-text: 21 My Portfolio /react-text react-text: 24 My Screeners /react-text react-text: 27 Market Data /react-text react-text: 30 Industry News /react-text react-text: 33 Personal Finance /react-text react-text: 36 Brexit /react-text react-text: 39 Tech /react-text FTSE 100 react-empty: 26 FTSE 250 react-empty: 39 AIM react-empty: 52 GBP/EUR react-empty: 65 GBP/USD react-empty: 78 BTC-GBP react-empty: 91 S&P; 500 react-empty: 104 DOW react-empty: 117 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 Zuckerberg: I haven't seen a 'meaningful number of people' deleting Facebook accounts Jillian D'Onfro 22 March 2018 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg told The New York Times he has not seen a ""meaningful number of people"" deleting their accounts in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data scandal. Facebook has been under fire after reports in The Observer and the Times said London-based firm Cambridge Analytica had improperly gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million users. The hashtag ""DeleteFacebook"" was trending on Twitter on Wednesday, and multiple news outlets posted instructional guides for users who felt that Facebook hasn't done enough to protect their data. ""I don't think we've seen a meaningful number of people act on that, but, you know, it's not good,"" Zuckerberg told the Times in an interview published Wednesday night. ""I think it's a clear signal that this is a major trust issue for people, and I understand that. And whether people delete their app over it or just don't feel good about using Facebook, that's a big issue that I think we have a responsibility to rectify."" It isn't clear how large of an exodus would be required for Zuckerberg to consider it ""meaningful."" The company reported 2.13 billion monthly active users in its fourth-quarter earnings. Although reaction to the Cambridge Analytica news knocked roughly $50 billion off Facebook's market value, Wall Street analysts have weighed in that they think the scandal was overblown. Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter wrote in a note to investors Wednesday evening that Zuckerberg's comments had ""mostly allay[ed] fears that FB itself will propose radical changes that would impact the business model."" It's been a tough year for Facebook overall, with reports of Russian manipulation of fake news to sway voters in the 2016 presidential election adding to the general tech backlash being felt in Silicon Valley . react-empty: 2 react-text: 10 /react-text What to read next The Telegraph CNBC Yahoo Finance UK Sky News Business Insider UK PA Money News react-empty: 93 CNBC Sky News House Beautiful CNBC CNBC FX Empire Sky video Business Insider UK The Independent FX Empire House Beautiful Fool.co.uk Sky News Bloomberg House Beautiful Fool.co.uk Fool.co.uk Sky News Bloomberg House Beautiful Fool.co.uk Fool.co.uk bf1-sdarlaws-009.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 03:58:19 UTC 2018  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1032] The Times and The Sunday Times and carefully selected third parties use cookies on this site to improve performance, for analytics and for advertising. By browsing this site you are agreeing to this. For more information see our Privacy and Cookie policy . Close Subscription Notification We have noticed that there is an issue with your subscription billing details. Please update your billing details here Please update your billing information The subscription details associated with this account need to be updated. Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your subscription. Your subscription will end shortly Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your access to the most informative and considered journalism in the UK. Introducing Tags We’ve added tags to the bottom of all article pages allowing you to further explore the topics you’re interested in. Accessibility Links Skip to content Saturday June 2 2018 Subscribe Log in Read the full article Just register a few details Get access Facebook Cambridge University was warned of data harvesting by lecturer Aleksandr Kogan March 22 2018, 12:01am,  All articles now feature tags allowing you to explore related topics and articles Education Rugby League Facebook Conservative Party Social media The University of Cambridge was warned as early as 2015 that a psychology lecturer was harvesting data from tens of millions of Facebook users. It said at the time that Aleksandr Kogan’s activities were beyond its control. Emails seen by The Times show that the pro-vice-chancellor responsible for research ethics was alerted to Dr Kogan by an academic from another university in December that year. Bill Cooke, research director at York University’s Management School, wrote that he was surprised to read press reports on the US presidential campaign that indicated his Facebook data might have been collected by the lecturer without permission and given to American political groups. It emerged last night that four years ago academics at Cambridge expressed serious concerns about Dr Kogan’s… Want to read more? Register with a few details to continue reading this article. Get access All articles now feature tags allowing you to explore related topics and articles Education Rugby League Facebook Conservative Party Social media You are now logged out Your choice of two articles a week Register now Or enjoy full digital access Get The Digital Pack for just £1 a month for 3 months, for a limited time only. Subscribe today Already a member? Log in Back to top Get in touch Contact us Help The Times Editorial Complaints The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints Place an announcement Classified advertising Display advertising The Times corrections The Sunday Times corrections More from The Times and The Sunday Times The Times e-paper The Sunday Times e-paper Times Currency Services The Sunday Times Wine Club The Times Dating Times Print Gallery The Times Archive Times Crossword Club Sunday Times Driving Times+ The Sunday Times Rich List Insider City Guides Good University Guide Schools Guide The Brief Best Places to Live Best Places to Stay Announcements Times Appointments © Times Newspapers Limited 2018.  Registered in England No. 894646.  Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF. Privacy & cookie policy Licensing Site Map Topics Commissioning Terms Terms and conditions Stay well informed Receive complimentary access to two articles from The Times and The Sunday Times every week Get access now I’m OK thanks   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1033] The Times and The Sunday Times and carefully selected third parties use cookies on this site to improve performance, for analytics and for advertising. By browsing this site you are agreeing to this. For more information see our Privacy and Cookie policy . Close Subscription Notification We have noticed that there is an issue with your subscription billing details. Please update your billing details here Please update your billing information The subscription details associated with this account need to be updated. Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your subscription. Your subscription will end shortly Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your access to the most informative and considered journalism in the UK. Introducing Tags We’ve added tags to the bottom of all article pages allowing you to further explore the topics you’re interested in. Accessibility Links Skip to content Saturday June 2 2018 Subscribe Log in Read the full article Just register a few details Get access RED BOX | COMMENT March 22 2018, 12:01am, The audacity of hype: how digital gurus boast their snake oil is better than the rest James Morris Political consultants are paid to spin for their clients but their greatest strength is their ability to spin for themselves. Every US presidential election gives birth to a pride of gurus equipped with the new formula for electoral success, available only at a reassuringly expensive price. In the 1990s, the New Democrat pollsters went on to work for Blair, Mandela, Schroeder and in every continent bar Antarctica. Barack Obama prompted his own wave of consultants plying their wares in the off year between elections, when domestic American political work dries up. After 2016, we had Cambridge Analytica. Just like Jim Messina and the Australian interloper Lynton Crosby, Cambridge’s shtick is that their digital targeting capability is revolutionary. After the inaccurately polled and unsuccessfully orchestrated Clinton… Want to read more? Register with a few details to continue reading this article. Get access All articles now feature tags allowing you to explore related topics and articles Politics Facebook History US politics Media You are now logged out Your choice of two articles a week Register now Or enjoy full digital access Get The Digital Pack for just £1 a month for 3 months, for a limited time only. Subscribe today Already a member? Log in Back to top Get in touch Contact us Help The Times Editorial Complaints The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints Place an announcement Classified advertising Display advertising The Times corrections The Sunday Times corrections More from The Times and The Sunday Times The Times e-paper The Sunday Times e-paper Times Currency Services The Sunday Times Wine Club The Times Dating Times Print Gallery The Times Archive Times Crossword Club Sunday Times Driving Times+ The Sunday Times Rich List Insider City Guides Good University Guide Schools Guide The Brief Best Places to Live Best Places to Stay Announcements Times Appointments © Times Newspapers Limited 2018.  Registered in England No. 894646.  Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF. Privacy & cookie policy Licensing Site Map Topics Commissioning Terms Terms and conditions Stay well informed Receive complimentary access to two articles from The Times and The Sunday Times every week Get access now I’m OK thanks   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1034] The Times and The Sunday Times and carefully selected third parties use cookies on this site to improve performance, for analytics and for advertising. By browsing this site you are agreeing to this. For more information see our Privacy and Cookie policy . Close Subscription Notification We have noticed that there is an issue with your subscription billing details. Please update your billing details here Please update your billing information The subscription details associated with this account need to be updated. Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your subscription. Your subscription will end shortly Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your access to the most informative and considered journalism in the UK. Introducing Tags We’ve added tags to the bottom of all article pages allowing you to further explore the topics you’re interested in. Accessibility Links Skip to content Saturday June 2 2018 Subscribe Log in Read the full article Just register a few details Get access video Advertisers threaten to quit Facebook over Cambridge Analytica scandal Zuckerberg says sorry for ‘major breach of trust’ March 22 2018, 9:00am,  All articles now feature tags allowing you to explore related topics and articles Social media Technology Food and drink Facebook Advertisers threatened to abandon Facebook last night as Mark Zuckerberg apologised for mistakes it made over the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Mr Zuckerberg, co-founder and chief executive of the US technology giant, broke his silence to head off a revolt among users and financial backers. He described the incident as a “major breach of trust” and said he was open to further regulation of the website. ISBA, a British group of advertisers that spend hundreds of millions of pounds a year on Facebook, demanded answers. It is understood that some of its 3,000 brands, which include those of the consumer goods companies Unilever and P&G;, will not tolerate association with Facebook if it emerges that users’ data has found its way into the hands of brokers… Want to read more? Register with a few details to continue reading this article. Get access All articles now feature tags allowing you to explore related topics and articles Social media Technology Food and drink Facebook You are now logged out Your choice of two articles a week Register now Or enjoy full digital access Get The Digital Pack for just £1 a month for 3 months, for a limited time only. Subscribe today Already a member? Log in Back to top Get in touch Contact us Help The Times Editorial Complaints The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints Place an announcement Classified advertising Display advertising The Times corrections The Sunday Times corrections More from The Times and The Sunday Times The Times e-paper The Sunday Times e-paper Times Currency Services The Sunday Times Wine Club The Times Dating Times Print Gallery The Times Archive Times Crossword Club Sunday Times Driving Times+ The Sunday Times Rich List Insider City Guides Good University Guide Schools Guide The Brief Best Places to Live Best Places to Stay Announcements Times Appointments © Times Newspapers Limited 2018.  Registered in England No. 894646.  Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF. Privacy & cookie policy Licensing Site Map Topics Commissioning Terms Terms and conditions Stay well informed Receive complimentary access to two articles from The Times and The Sunday Times every week Get access now I’m OK thanks   "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1035] Mark Zuckerberg says he's open to regulation of Facebook on CNN react-empty: 6 Yahoo Search Search Skip to Navigation Skip to Market Summary Skip to Main Content Skip to Related Content Sign in react-text: 10 Finance /react-text react-text: 18 Watchlists /react-text react-text: 21 My Portfolio /react-text react-text: 24 My Screeners /react-text react-text: 27 Market Data /react-text react-text: 30 Industry News /react-text react-text: 33 Personal Finance /react-text react-text: 36 Brexit /react-text react-text: 39 Tech /react-text FTSE 100 react-empty: 26 FTSE 250 react-empty: 39 AIM react-empty: 52 GBP/EUR react-empty: 65 GBP/USD react-empty: 78 BTC-GBP react-empty: 91 S&P; 500 react-empty: 104 DOW react-empty: 117 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 Mark Zuckerberg says he's open to regulation of Facebook on CNN Keith Wagstaff • 22 March 2018 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 2 react-empty: 16 Perhaps Facebook should be regulated. That’s what Mark Zuckerberg said in a rare TV interview on Wednesday night. “I actually am not sure we shouldn't be regulated,"" Zuckerberg told CNN’s Laurie Segall in a pre-taped interview.  ""You know, I think in general, technology is an increasingly important trend in the world, and I actually think the question is more, 'What is the right regulation?' rather than, 'Yes or no, should it be regulated?"" SEE ALSO: Why Mark Zuckerberg's response to the Cambridge Analytica controversy is a big deal Zuckerberg’s TV appearance came in the wake of a scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a data firm that the Trump campaign used during the 2016 presidential election.  The firm used a quiz created by researcher Aleksandr Kogan to access the personal data of 50 million Facebook users.  Facebook told Cambridge Analytica to delete the data several years ago, but didn't confirm afterward that it had actually done so. Last Friday, Cambridge Analytica’s nefarious practices were exposed thanks to Christopher Wylie, a former contractor, who spoke to The New York Times and The Guardian .  Zuckerberg did not speak out about the matter until a Facebook post he shared, along with Chief Content Officer Sheryl Sandberg, on Wednesday. He also spoke with the New York Times , Recode , and WIRED .  A big issue: Facebook knew about the issue in 2015, and yet decided to sweep it under the rug. Now, thanks to Wylie blowing the whistle, Facebook has introduced several updates meant to prevent similar disasters in the future, including an audit of all apps that have access to user data. “We’re now not just going to take people’s word for it,” Zuckerberg said in reference to researchers and developers using Facebook’s API to access vast amounts of user data.  But in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, U.S. lawmakers are asking Zuckerberg to testify on the matter.  “I’m happy to if it’s the right thing to do,” Zuckerberg said. “Our objective is to provide Congress, which is an extremely important job, to have the most information they can.”  This is far from the first and far from the last of Facebook’s scandals. When CNN’s Segall asked whether election meddling — Facebook’s scandal of 2017 — was still happening, he said, “I’m sure there’s a V2.” As in, yes.  Zuckerberg says he doesn’t want another election meddling scandal. One big reason: his children. No, not necessarily the more than 2 billion people who use his service every month. “I really just care about building something that my girls are going to grow up and be proud of me for, "" he said, saying his ""guiding philosophy"" is to ""work on a lot of hard things during the day and come home and just ask, 'Will my girls be proud of what I did today?'"" WATCH: Facebook is using facial recognition — here's how to turn it off react-empty: 2 react-text: 10 /react-text What to read next The Telegraph CNBC Yahoo Finance UK Sky News Business Insider UK PA Money News react-empty: 93 CNBC Sky News House Beautiful CNBC CNBC FX Empire Sky video Business Insider UK The Independent FX Empire House Beautiful Fool.co.uk Sky News Bloomberg House Beautiful Fool.co.uk Fool.co.uk Sky News Bloomberg House Beautiful Fool.co.uk Fool.co.uk bf1-sdarlaws-010.adx.bf1.yahoo.com Sat Jun 2 03:58:25 UTC 2018  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1037]  Facebook 'lost control of its data', whistle-blower tells MPs  /* IE 11 Tile for Windows 8.1 Start Screen */   OVERLAY LOGO BAR  CLOSE BUTTON  NAV PRIMARY Premium News Politics World Sport Technology Business Money Opinion Travel Culture Lifestyle Health and Fitness Fashion Luxury Cars Weddings Obituaries NAV SECONDARY Free Mobile App Jobs Financial Solutions Rewards Events Dating Offers Shop Garden Shop Bookshop Box Office Puzzles Fantasy Football Work at The Telegraph Telegraph Corporate   Search Video Rewards  Upgrade to Premium My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  My Account My account btn  Premium btn HTML EMBED  My details   My newsletters  Logout  Upgrade to Premium   Search Video Rewards  Subscribe - 30 days free My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  Login My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  Register My account btn Premium btn HTML EMBED  Search Video Rewards  My Account My account btn  Premium btn HTML EMBED  My details   My newsletters  Logout   Home News Sport Business NAV OVERLAY BUTTON  Technology Intelligence   Big Tech Start-ups Innovation Politics of Tech Gadgets Flash briefing Podcast Newsletter Tech Jobs   Telegraph Technology Intelligence   Facebook 'lost control of its data', whistle-blower tells MPs                    Technology latest  Market report: Alfa Financial shares tumble  as project delays hit earnings  Spotify rows back on hateful conduct policy after coming under fire from music industry  Facebook to remove 'trending' news stories section following years of controversy  iOS 12: 8 things we want to see in Apple's new iPhone software  This robot-run newsroom 'weeds out 99 per cent of fake news'  Mark Zuckerberg feels wrath of investors at shareholder meeting  What is cryptocurrency, how does it work and why do we use it?  What is bitcoin, how does it work and what affects its price?  Google blames Wikipedia for linking California Republicans to Nazism  The Tories' biggest future challenge is not Brexit: it's AI, and the chaos it could unleash Jeremy Warner   Uganda imposes WhatsApp tax  Deloitte partners face ban from accounting over failures on Autonomy  Chinese artificial intelligence start-up SenseTime raises $620m for its facial recognition technology  Jaguar I-Pace SUV, in pictures – full prices, specs and photos revealed  Google draws up guidelines for its military AI following employee fury  Uber seeks deal on self-driving cars with former rival Waymo  'I dug through everything that social media services know about me'   'Embarrassing' leak shows EU falls short of own GDPR data law   Fertility tracking bracelet Ava raises $30m to expand into healthcare  British businesses facing cyber ransom demands of up to £200,000  Microsoft's value overtakes Alphabet for the first time in three years    Contact us About us Rewards Archive Reader Prints Branded Content Syndication Guidelines Privacy Terms and Conditions Advertising terms  © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018    We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Click here for instructions Close "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1039]   [if IE 8]>< class=""no-js lt-ie10 lt-ie9"" lang=""en""> endif] [if IE 9 < class=""no-js lt-ie10"" lang=""en""> endif] Mark Zuckerberg on Cambridge Analytica: Need to fix 'breach of trust' Get the news Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally speaks on Cambridge Analytica: We need to fix 'breach of trust' Facebook CEO breaks his silence and speaks on Cambridge Analytica Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally speaks on Cambridge Analytica: We need to fix 'breach of trust' Facebook CEO breaks his silence and speaks on Cambridge Analytica Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://usat.ly/2FQJdNv Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally speaks on Cambridge Analytica: We need to fix 'breach of trust' p402_premium class is utilized by Google Consumer Surveys CLOSE Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg apologized for a ""major breach of trust,"" admitted mistakes and outlined steps to protect user data in light of a privacy scandal involving the Trump-connected data-mining firm during a CNN interview. (March 22) SAN FRANCISCO — Facing growing criticism of his leadership, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally broke his silence on the escalating crisis over how the social media giant handles people's private information.  Zuckerberg took responsibility for what he called ""a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it."" ""We need to fix that,"" he said.  The Facebook co-founder outlined a three-point plan: investigate all third-party apps with access to large amounts of information, further restrict third-party access to prevent future abuses and make sure users understand which apps they've given access to their information. ""I'm serious about doing what it takes to protect our community,"" he said in a Facebook post . He stopped short of apologizing and didn't answer some of the questions raised since the news broke Friday that Cambridge Analytica pilfered sensitive information from tens of millions of Facebook users. He didn't answer why Facebook didn't reveal the breach when it first learned about it in 2015.  In later interviews with CNN and tech news outlet Recode, Zuckerberg finally did apologize. ""We let the community down and I feel really bad and I’m sorry about that,"" he told Recode . What some Facebook users may find alarming: Zuckerberg admitted to CNN that he doesn’t know if there are other groups in possession of Facebook users' data like Cambridge Analytica. The reaction on Facebook was mixed. ""As a long-time user of your platform I'm simply concerned that this is too little, too late,"" one user wrote in the comments on Zuckerberg's post. ""The data collected from your users never should have happened in the first place. Your company — and industry — clearly cannot police itself,"" wrote another. CLOSE Here's how a data firm helped Donald Trump get elected as president. We have the FAQs. ""Facebook faces the greatest danger confronting the firm, and Zuckerberg's response is one of the single-worst responses in the history of modern-day crisis management,""  said Eric Schiffer, CEO and Chairman of Reputation Management Consultants. ""He gave no apology and showed no empathy after allowing users data to be pillaged. The threat to Facebook was not helped today by its leader."" Zuckerberg's remarks were aimed at restoring public trust in the social media giant. That trust may be hard to win back. Silence by Facebook's two top executives — Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg — fanned the flames of the controversy for days as U.S. and European lawmakers demanded answers and Facebook shares tumbled. Daniel Ives, head of technology research at GBH Insights, welcomed Zuckerberg breaking his silence. ""With shares down 10% plus since the Cambridge data leak news came to light, we are glad to hear Zuckerberg finally address this issue,"" Ives said in a research note. ""We believe Zuckerberg took a 'big step forward' today.""  Zuckerberg's remarks were his first since bombshell reports from The New York Times  and The Guardian/The Observer  alleged British data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained and retained the personal information of 50 million Facebook users without their permission — 30 million of them with enough details to match users to other records and build profiles of them. Cambridge Analytica has ties to President Trump's 2016 campaign.  ""Facebook is exhibiting signs of systemic mismanagement, which is a new concern we had not contemplated until recently,"" Pivotal Research Group analyst Brian Wieser wrote in a research note before the remarks Wednesday. ""Investors now have to consider whether or not the company will conclude that it has grown in a manner that has proven to be untenable or whether it needs to significantly improve how it is managed."" Facebook disclosed late Friday that it knew Cambridge Analytica had taken users' information without their consent by obtaining it from a psychology researcher who legitimately gleaned details on users' likes and habits via a personality quiz app in 2013. The growing scandal has given Facebook users an inside look into what happens to their data in the hands of outside parties and what, if anything, Facebook does about it.  Facebook admits it knew Cambridge Analytica had obtained user information without its consent, but it didn't verify that the firm had deleted it — and it didn't notify users. Zuckerberg repeated the company's earlier comments that it had obtained certifications that the firm had destroyed the data. But it engaged forensic auditors to make sure that was the case after  The New York Times  report.   ""I deeply regret that we didn't do enough to deal with it. We have a responsibility to protect your data — and if we can't, then we don't deserve to serve you,"" Sandberg wrote in a separate Facebook post. U.S. lawmakers have called on Zuckerberg to testify before Congress. Facebook met with lawmakers Tuesday and planned to meet again Wednesday to discuss the case. The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over the matter, and the social network faces investigations from attorneys general in both New York and Massachusetts. ""While this specific issue involving Cambridge Analytica should no longer happen with new apps today, that doesn't change what happened in the past,"" Zuckerberg wrote. ""We will learn from this experience to secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward."" Cambridge Analytica, which had said all data obtained through Facebook was done ""legally and fairly,"" revealed Tuesday it suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full investigation. Facebook ( FB ) shares were up 0.7% Wednesday to $169.39. Shares have fallen8% this week, including a 7% drop Monday, the stock's worst fall in four years, according to FactSet. Facebook CEO Zuckerberg lost $6.7 billion as the stock skid for two days, putting his net worth at $68.6 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Responding to criticism of Facebook's handling of the crisis, the board of directors released a statement Wednesday. ""Mark and Sheryl know how serious this situation is and are working with the rest of Facebook leadership to build stronger user protections,"" Sue Desmond-Hellman, lead director, said in the statement. ""They have built the company and our business and are instrumental to its future.""   Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2FQJdNv Share your feedback to help improve our site experience! comscorekw=tech [if lt IE 9"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1040]  Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript) Most Popular News News Latest Headlines Opinion California News Environment & Science Nation & World Education Crime & Courts Health Politics Transportation Traffic Map Weather Hanging Series + Podcast Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Oakland Raiders Oakland Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes College Sports Pac-12 Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Scoreboard Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Sports Buzz Warriors Merchandise Business Business Technology Personal Technology Economy Startups Real Estate News Bay Area Homes SiliconValley.com Entertainment Entertainment Lifestyle Celebrities Television Movies Music Theater & Arts Eat & Drink Pet Pal Connection Relationships & Advice Travel & Play Movie Listings Comics Horoscopes Puzzles and Games Obituaries Obituaries Local Obituaries Place an Obituary The Cannifornian  The Mercury News Weather Today’s E Edition Manage Subscription Sign Up for Newsletters  Most Popular News News Latest Headlines Opinion California News Environment & Science Nation & World Education Crime & Courts Health Politics Transportation Traffic Map Weather Hanging Series + Podcast Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Oakland Raiders Oakland Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes College Sports Pac-12 Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Scoreboard Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Sports Buzz Warriors Merchandise Business Business Technology Personal Technology Economy Startups Real Estate News Bay Area Homes SiliconValley.com Entertainment Entertainment Lifestyle Celebrities Television Movies Music Theater & Arts Eat & Drink Pet Pal Connection Relationships & Advice Travel & Play Movie Listings Comics Horoscopes Puzzles and Games Obituaries Obituaries Local Obituaries Place an Obituary The Cannifornian  Share this: 			Trending:		      Business Technology Share this: Josh Edelson/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images 						"In this file photo taken on March 25, 2015 Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at the F8 summit in San Francisco. On Wednesday, Zuckerberg address the growing scandal involving Facebook and Cambridge Analytica by saying Facebook “made mistakes” with regards to the security of the data of more than 50 million of its users."		" By Rex Crum | rcrum@bayareanewsgroup.com and Levi Sumagaysay | lsumagaysay@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: March 21, 2018 at 12:57 pm | UPDATED: March 21, 2018 at 11:24 pm MENLO PARK — Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg broke days of silence Wednesday, addressing allegations that Cambridge Analytica had misused personal data and acknowledging his company “made mistakes” in handling its more than 2.2 billion users’ information. The stakes are extremely high for Menlo Park-based Facebook as it tries to win back its users’ trust after reports over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica — a London-based data analytics firm that worked with Donald Trump’s presidential campaign — had accessed the personal information of 50 million Facebook users without their permission. Federal regulators are investigating the data breach, and politicians are mulling new privacy rules that could hamstring tech firms. On Wednesday, a contrite Zuckerberg revealed steps his company is taking to improve how it safeguards users’ data. “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” Zuckerberg said in a 937-word post on his personal Facebook page. “I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I’m responsible for what happens on our platform.” In an interview Wednesday night on CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” Zuckerberg told CNN’s Laurie Segall that his company will be taking steps to ensure there is no repeat. “I don’t know about you, but I’m used to when people legally certify that they are going to do something, that they do it. But I think this was clearly a mistake in retrospect,” Zuckerberg said. “We need to make sure we don’t make that mistake ever again. This was a major breach of trust, and I’m really sorry that this happened. We have a basic responsibility to protect peoples’ data.” During the CNN interview, Zuckerberg also left the door open to testifying before Congress if he was called upon to do so. “The short answer is I’m happy to if it’s the right thing to do,” Zuckerberg said. “What we try to do is send the person at Facebook who will have the most knowledge. If that’s me, then I am happy to go.” Zuckerberg offered a timeline starting with the launch of the Facebook platform in 2007, which he said “enabled people to log into apps and share who their friends were and some information about them.” The timeline culminated with Facebook learning last week that Cambridge Analytica continued to possess user data that Facebook initially said the London firm had erased at Facebook’s request. Over the weekend, the New York Times and the Guardian revealed that a Cambridge University professor, Aleksandr Kogan, passed along user data to Cambridge Analytica, which he had collected from his personality-prediction app on Facebook. While the app was originally intended for academic research, Kogan said he updated its user terms to disclose that he would be selling user data. Former Cambridge Analytica employee Chris Wylie has said the firm’s data and analysis helped shape the politically divisive tone of the Trump campaign. Cambridge Analytica is partly owned by big GOP donor Robert Mercer, and former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon was a vice president at the firm. Facebook has said it was deceived by Kogan, who provided the users’ data to the firm. Kogan has said he’s being scapegoated by the social networking giant. Facebook has suspended the accounts of Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Wylie. Responding to the Cambridge Analytica controversy, Zuckerberg outlined three steps Wednesday that Facebook will take to better secure users’ privacy and control of their data. Facebook will investigate all apps that had access to large amounts of information before the company changed its platform to reduce access to data in 2014. It will conduct full audits of any apps that appear to engage in “suspicious activity,” and any developer that doesn’t agree to an audit will be banned from Facebook. “And if we find developers that misused personally identifiable information, we will ban them and tell everyone affected by those apps,” Zuckerberg said. Facebook’s second new policy involves restricting developers’ data access even further to prevent other kinds of abuse. Developers will also lose their access to users’ data if someone hasn’t used a developer’s app in three months. The third item Zuckerberg detailed is aimed at letting Facebook users know which apps they have allowed to access their data. Over the next month, Facebook users will see a tool at the top of their news feed with the apps they have used and will have an easier way to revoke those apps’ permissions to access a user’s data. This feature had previously been available in a Facebook user’s privacy settings. Yet some Silicon Valley technology experts questioned whether Facebook’s new remedies will go far enough to shore up confidence in the social networking giant, and a U.S. senator called on Zuckerberg to go to D.C. to face lawmakers. U.S. Senator Edward Markey, D-Massachusetts, responded to Zuckerberg’s statement with his own brief Facebook post, saying, “You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath.” Earlier this week, Facebook’s stock price plunged as the Cambridge Analytica backlash gathered momentum and Zuckerberg remained silent. Between Monday and Tuesday, Facebook’s market capitalization tumbled by more than $60 billion — or more than the entire market value of Tesla. It ended the Wednesday trading session up 0.7 percent at $169.39 a share, with a market cap of $492.1 billion. But its shares have fallen 8.5 percent since March 16. The Cambridge Analytica brouhaha comes as Facebook is still dealing with the fallout from its role in helping spread fake news and propaganda by Russian trolls, an idea Zuckerberg scoffed at two years ago — even calling it “crazy.” Dan Ives, head of technology research at GBH Insights, said that the Cambridge Analytica issue will remain a dark cloud over the Facebook name in the near term, but that the actions Zuckerberg outlined in his blog post “should help users, advertisers and investors feel more comfortable that Facebook and Zuckerberg are starting to get their arms around this issue.” Zuckerberg didn’t explain his days-long silence since the Cambridge Analytica news surfaced. Prior to his statement on Wednesday, his last public Facebook post was a March 2 photo showing Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, holding a tray of hamentashen cookies, celebrating the Jewish holiday of Purim. But Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said in a post Wednesday, “We’ve spent the past few days working to get a fuller picture so we can stop this from happening again.” Some analysts who follow Facebook said Zuckerberg’s post, while tardy, was a case of better late than never. “It does appear Zuckerberg is owning the problem,” said Tim Bajarin, principal analyst with Campbell-based Creative Strategies, a market research firm. “To date, he has been hesitant to do so with some of these data problems.” Others expressed concern that Facebook’s efforts could once again fall short of truly fixing what’s broken with the platform. “What we’ve seen from Facebook over the years is that they’re introducing technologies without really considering the risks,” said Michael Connor, executive director of Open Media and Information Companies Initiative, a nonprofit that works on socially responsible investing and shareholder engagement, in an interview Tuesday. “You frequently hear from them, ‘we’re trying,’ but not really that ‘we’re solving the problem,’ ” Connor said. Reporters George Avalos and Seung Lee contributed to this article. Tags:  Facebook Mark Zuckerberg Politics Social Networks Technology  "						"Rex Crum is the senior web editor for the business section for The Mercury News and Bay Area News Group. He also writes about business and technology for the publications' print and web editions, and has covered business and technology for nearly two decades. A native of Seattle, he remains a diehard Seahawks and Mariners fan and is imparting his fandom to his Oakland-native wife and two young daughters."					 									Follow Rex Crum									  						Levi Sumagaysay is a writer and editor for the Bay Area News Group. She's in charge of the SiliconBeat technology blog and Good Morning Silicon Valley newsletter.					 									Follow Levi Sumagaysay									 				Subscribe Today!				"  blog comments powered by  Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up           More in Technology   June 01, 2018, 4:02 pm .entry-meta "			"Program viewed by Google executives as 'golden opportunity' and stepping stone to lucrative military contracts, report says."		" .article-info   June 01, 2018, 2:46 pm .entry-meta "			Tesla responds to a report about multiple fires in its vehicle-painting facility at its Fremont factory by saying it is taking the steps necessary to ensure its employees' safety.		" .article-info   June 01, 2018, 2:14 pm .entry-meta "			"You're not reading all those updated data policies flooding your inbox. You probably haven't even looked for your privacy settings. And that's exactly what Facebook, Google and other tech giants are counting on."		" .article-info   June 01, 2018, 11:22 am .entry-meta "			"The section proved problematic in ways that would presage Facebook's later problems with fake news, political balance and the limitations of artificial intelligence in managing the messy human world."		 .article-info  #content Member Services News Alerts    Subscribe Klay Offer Manage Your Subscription Subscribe Now Today’s e-Edition Email Newsletters Mobile Apps Contact Us Contact Us Corrections & Clarifications Reprints Archive Search Lottery Classifieds Autos Jobs Top Work Places Real Estate Place an Obituary Place a Legal Ad Advertise With Us Weekly Ads Fry’s Ad Public Notices Partners Monster.com © 2018 Digital First Media Site Map Copyright Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Bay Area News Group .site-footer #page START Parse.ly Include: Standard END Parse.ly Include: Standard /// LOAD CHARTBEAT /// > 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																			
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1041]  Don’t #DeleteFacebook. That’s not good enough.         Skip to the content Notable topics North Korea Summit Jobs Numbers NBA Finals Dinesh D'Souza New Kanye Album News Quiz Podcasts Slate Plus  Slate homepage  Submit search Enter query Sign In My Account ▾ Settings Log out   News & Politics    Culture    Technology    Business    Human Interest    Slate homepage  Open menu Close menu Notable topics North Korea Summit Jobs Numbers NBA Finals Dinesh D'Souza New Kanye Album News Quiz News & Politics Culture Technology Business Human Interest Podcasts Slate Plus  Search   Follow us  Slate on Instagram Slate on Twitter Slate on Facebook Register Sign in Settings Log out  *  So Brazen It’s Almost Admirable  Follow Us  Slate on Instagram Slate on Twitter Slate on Facebook    Users The Problem With #DeleteFacebook It insults those who don’t have the privilege of leaving. And it suggests Facebook has failed consumers—when the company has really failed society. By       Illustration by Natalie Matthews-Ramo/Slate.  People are mad at Facebook, and they should be. The company allowed thousands of app developers to extract their data through time-sucking games and pointless online quizzes. And now, thanks to a whistleblower and two stunning reports in the Observer and the New York Times, we know that one of those developers siphoned data on more than 50 million Facebook users and shared them with the Trump campaign’s voter targeting firm, Cambridge Analytica—a company that has bragged it has psychological profiles on 230 million American voters, which it uses to target people online with emotionally precise digital messaging to influence elections. This was the trade-off for logging in to see baby photos?   Whether Cambridge Analytica’s claims are inflated (only about 139 million people voted in the 2016 election, after all) is fair to debate, but the heart of the controversy is harder to dismiss: It now feels time to reconsider Facebook’s bargain. We gave the company the trust it asked for, along with our photos and thoughts and likes and shares. We all knew of course, that this information helped Facebook sell us to advertisers; fewer were probably aware that until a few years ago, app developers also had access to our data, even if it was there in the terms of service. Many certainly didn’t think that those app developers could break those terms and sell that data to whomever they wanted, including political operatives. This may not technically be a “breach” of Facebook’s platform, as the company has stressed. But it is a breach of trust.   Hence: #DeleteFacebook . The Twitter hashtag emerged in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica revelations, and began to feel like a movement Tuesday night when WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton—a man whose company was sold to Facebook for $16 billion—tweeted that “It is time.” It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018   The #DeleteFacebook instinct is understandable: Just be done with it. Put your phone to your ear and call people. Use Twitter or Instagram—the latter of which is owned by Facebook, but hey, at the least it’s mostly made up of sun-dappled vacation photos. Write a letter! Talk to neighbors! Whatever you do to fill that void of connection, just walk away from Facebook. If you’re angry about what Facebook is doing, the logic goes, you should take your business elsewhere.   I understand this reaction, but it’s also an unfair one: Deleting Facebook is a privilege. The company has become so good at the many things it does that for lots of people, leaving the service would be a self-harming act. And they deserve better from it, too. Which is why the initial answer to Facebook’s failings shouldn’t be to flee Facebook. We need to demand a better Facebook.  I say all this as someone who basically did walk away from Facebook a few years ago. I still have an account, but I tend to just log on out of curiosity, to report a story, or to write the occasional life update. I don’t have the app on my phone, and I probably log in once a week. But I could afford to leave Facebook—and I did pay a cost for it. I’ve lost touch with friends. I don’t go out much anymore and don’t know when cool things I might like to go to are happening. I’m pretty much not a part of any scene anymore. I don’t know when old friends are in town I’d love to see. Back when I promoted art openings and booked music shows, I always had to make a Facebook event; if I wanted to do so again, I’d still have to go through Facebook. Leaving Facebook was a retreat. But not everyone has the luxury of making one.   Unlike broadcast television and radio, which are also free for the price of having to endure ads, on Facebook you can’t change the channel. If you leave Facebook—which is where your friends, scene, and community already is—you’re alone, because for many people, Facebook is becoming the internet and the internet is becoming Facebook . Your business could have trouble reaching customers; your family might not gather on another social network; no one posts any events anywhere else. All of which means that leaving Facebook simply doesn’t make sense for many people. It’s a network effect, a kind of natural monopoly; migrating to another social network would only work if enough people migrate there, too. In other words, if you want to be a part of any social life or local political conversations or want to promote your work, that simply means being on Facebook.  Even when I left Facebook personally, I didn’t professionally. That’s because media outlets rely on Facebook, too. A huge chunk of the readers of my articles find them through Facebook—and if they like them, they share them on Facebook, so others can read them. But my work depended on Facebook before I was a journalist, too. When I was an activist working to defend online privacy and protect people from digital surveillance at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, we would post our blog posts and events … yep, on Facebook. It’s one of the main ways we got the word out. The same was true at previous jobs. Every campaign or issue I was organizing around needed to have a presence on Facebook. Before Facebook, activists sent a lot of emails and made a lot of phone calls. It worked, but as soon as everyone started using Facebook, we had to be there too. Otherwise we risked invisibility.   Likewise, if you have a small business, sometimes a Facebook page is your online presence. If you’re not operating in the service industry or with a storefront, Yelp might not make sense. Facebook, for all its problems, has become a necessary part of life for people, one that they can’t afford to shed, personally or professionally.  And in countries with lower internet adoption, Facebook is often people’s foray onto the whole internet. Facebook’s Free Basics program is operating in 63 countries and municipalities across Africa, Asia, and Latin America—and with that, people get free access to Facebook and a small handful of websites that partner with Facebook, though they can’t access other sites or email. For those users, Facebook is, in a sense, the whole internet.  So sure, delete Facebook if you can. The company may not deserve your trust or your business, and you’ll have more free time to do other, better things. But if you can’t quit, that’s OK, too. That’s why #DeleteFacebook is the wrong message: It frames this as an issue of individual consumer choice. But it’s really a problem in search of a solution either from Facebook itself—changing its service so that its users really can feel safe—or from the government, which may need to step in and blow the whistle on Facebook’s entire business model.   If you think Facebook is worth deleting over its issues, then call your elected official to regulate the company, as well as other companies, like Google, that profit from harvesting our personal details to sell ads tailored to us across the internet. Because it’s becoming clearer that we can’t trust these companies to regulate themselves, and these conversations about user privacy, security, and well-being are incredibly important for those who can’t afford to not be on Facebook.  There’s no comprehensive federal online privacy law in the U.S. Meanwhile, these companies have become some of the most powerful and wealthy entities in the world in large part thanks to having few checks on their data collection. The more we learn about that corporate surveillance, the less simple it is to dismiss it. It was only a few months ago that journalists learned that Facebook let advertisers target people based on hateful keywords , like “Jew haters” and “How to burn Jews.” And Facebook knew that Cambridge Analytica had wrongfully obtained tens of millions of their users’ data without saying a word publicly—and even then, it took two years and teams of journalists to write major stories about how bad the whole situation was to get Facebook to fess up.  So I’m with you, Facebook deleters, but only to a point. Because as constituents of Facebook, we also need to advocate for a safer platform for anyone who’s unable to hop off. Read more from Slate on Cambridge Anaytica. One more thing You depend on Slate for sharp, distinctive coverage of the latest developments in politics and culture. Now we need to ask for your support. Our work is more urgent than ever and is reaching more readers—but online advertising revenues don’t fully cover our costs, and we don’t have print subscribers to help keep us afloat. So we need your help. If you think Slate’s work matters, become a Slate Plus member. You’ll get exclusive members-only content and a suite of great benefits—and you’ll help secure Slate’s future. Join Slate Plus     Cambridge Analytica  Facebook  April Glaser is a Slate technology writer and co-hosts the podcast If Then .      Most Recent View all   5h ago    Jamelle Bouie  The Pardon of Dinesh D’Souza Shows How Far the Racist Fringe Has Risen Under Donald Trump  5h ago    Mark Joseph Stern  New Hampshire Police Charged and Arrested a Man for Criticizing Them on the Internet  6h ago    Ben Mathis-Lilley  Yet Another Report Indicates That the Trump White House Worked Closely With a Twice-Convicted Pedophile  6h ago    Jed Shugerman  How Trump’s Dinesh D’Souza Pardon Should Backfire  6h ago    Keith Phipps  It’s the Perfect Time for Sci-Fi Movies That Put Ideas Before Effects  6h ago    Christina Cauterucci  Florida Congressman Is Hosting a Women’s Summit With Classes on Weight Loss and Gardening   6h ago    Rebecca Onion  Samantha Bee, Kanye’s Album, and Little League Dads  7h ago    Ben Mathis-Lilley  The North Korea Summit Is Back On! What a Fun Roller Coaster This Is, With the Stakes Being Our Potential Nuclear Annihilation  8h ago    April Glaser  Facebook Is Finally Ditching Its Trending Section  10h ago    Ben Mathis-Lilley  Coal Barons Who Donated $1 Million to Trump’s Increasingly Suspicious Inauguration Fund May Get Huge Favor  10h ago    Christina Cauterucci  Trump Adds Another Anti-Science, Anti-Choice Woman to Oversee Critical Health Programs  10h ago    Marissa Martinelli, June Thomas, Veralyn Williams, and Lena Wilson  Does 13 Reasons Why ’s Second Season Try to Revise Too Much of the First?  Most Read   Justin Trudeau Says There Was Almost a NAFTA Deal. Then Mike Pence Called Him With an Insane Demand.    Jordan Weissmann     Teens Are Abandoning Facebook. For Real This Time.    Will Oremus     Our Son Will Never Meet His Racist Grandmother. Can We Tell Him She’s Dead?    Nicole Cliffe     The Most Unfortunate Thing About Sam Bee’s Self-Defeating Slur    Sam Adams     Gregory Hill Was Shot to Death by Cops. Why Did a Jury Decide His Life Was Worth $4?    Daniel Engber     Trump Just Did the One Thing He’s Not Supposed to Do With the Jobs Numbers    Jordan Weissmann     Reprints Advertise: Site / Podcasts FAQ Contact / Feedback Corrections About us Work with us User agreement Privacy policy AdChoices Follow Us  Facebook   Twitter   Instagram  The Slate Group logo  Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents © 2018 The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.   We Need to Talk About Your Ad Blocker Slate relies on advertising to support our journalism. If you value our work, please disable your ad blocker. Enable Ads on Slate Want to Block Ads But Still Support Slate? By joining Slate Plus you support our work and get exclusive content. And you'll never see this message again. Join Slate Plus  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1042]  duplicate React-root div for styling Zuckerberg’s response to Cambridge scandal omits why it delayed investigating Zuckerberg's response to Cambridge scandal omits why it delayed investigating 			Josh Constine		"  , and at the end of the day I’m responsible for what happens on our platform” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg posted after days of the public and government officials waiting for him to speak up about the Cambridge Analytica scandal since it broke Friday. “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.” For more on what Zuckerberg omitted in his statement, check out our feature piece 7 much scarier questions for Zuckerberg Zuckerberg laid out a slate of changes Facebook will make to prevent past and future abuses of user data by app developers. Those include: Blocking data access of apps you haven’t used for three months or more Auditing old apps that collected a lot of personal data Reducing the amount of data apps can pull using Facebook Login without an additional permissions screen to just your name, profile photo, and email address Requiring a signed contract from developers that want to pull your posts or private information Surfacing Facebook’s privacy third-party app privacy settings tool atop the News Feed to help people repeal access to apps Telling people if their data was misued by the app associated with Cambridge Analytica, or apps Facebook bans for misue in the future. What’s missing from this response is any indication why Facebook didn’t do more to enforce its policy prohibiting apps from sharing user data, or why it took Cambridge Analytica at their word when they said they deleted the data without proper investigation. Or a straight-forward apology. Facebook is still playing the victim here. But overall, the plan doesn’t address the fact that tons of developers pulled and may still be in possession of illicit Facebook data. Now off of Facebook’s servers, it has little control over it. Finding and deleting every copy of these data sets may be impossible. That could lead to future data scandals that may make people take Zuckerberg up on his assertion that if Facebook can’t keep people’s data safe, they shouldn’t use it. You can read Zuckerberg’s full post below: I want to share an update on the Cambridge Analytica situation — including the steps we've already taken and our next… Posted by Mark Zuckerberg on  Wednesday, March 21, 2018 For more on Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal, read our feature pieces: 7 much scarier questions for Zuckerberg Facebook and the endless string of worst-case scenarios #deletefacebook Facebook suspends Cambridge Analytica, the data analysis firm that worked on the Trump campaign  end React-root duplication div end #root JSON-LD End JSON-LD START Parse.ly Include: Standard END Parse.ly Include: Standard "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																	
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1043]   Zuckerberg admits Facebook ""breach of trust"" - Axios      close icon Skip to content Mobile toggle main menu Axios Axios Mobile toggle complementary sections Newsletters Sign up for Axios AM All newsletters Sections Top Stories Technology Politics Business Health Care Science Future Energy World Special Features Smarter Faster Facts Matter Axios Visuals More Newsletters Events About Contact Newsroom Search Privacy & Terms Advertise With Us profile Sign In Create Account Search Latest Stories Latest Stories Trump nominates new Federal Communications Commission member 1 hour ago / Politics The new North Korea challenge: Paying for Kim Jong-un's hotel 1 hour ago / Politics Puerto Rican government admits to higher death toll from Hurricane Maria 2 hours ago / Politics Google backs out of hosting progressive political fundraiser 3 hours ago / Technology CVS Health will stop donating to pro-Trump group 3 hours ago / Business Former Google executive named CEO of Palo Alto Networks 3 hours ago / Technology Missouri governor signs sexual misconduct bill before leaving office 4 hours ago / Politics Trump taps Adm. Douglas Fears as homeland security adviser 4 hours ago / Politics Visa cards experience ""service disruption"" across Europe 6 hours ago / World Friday special: Mike's summer beach reads 6 hours ago / U.S. News A tech-tonic day: Facebook and Apple's big changes 6 hours ago / Technology Axios PM: A tech-tonic day — The summit's back on — Unemployment is down 6 hours ago / Newsletters Spotify has passed its stock price stability test 7 hours ago / Business U.S. and Israel coordinate terms for new deal in Southern Syria 7 hours ago / World Axios China: ""The gene of revolution"" — Ross heads to Beijing — The father of hybrid rice 8 hours ago / Newsletters Report: Google won't renew military A.I. contract 8 hours ago / Technology Trump announces North Korea summit is back on for June 12 9 hours ago / World Malaysia turns to crowdfunding to cut national debt 9 hours ago / World Why it matters: Trump's tweet may have disrupted the market 9 hours ago / Politics White House prepares bailout of coal and nuclear plants 9 hours ago / Politics Stories https://www.axios.com/mark-zuckerberg-cambridge-analytica-facebook-1521660072-1c8a6a80-9802-44f4-943b-939e5e077420. David McCabe , Ina Fried Save story Zuckerberg admits Facebook ""breach of trust"" Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images Mark Zuckerberg weighed in on what he called the ""Cambridge Analytica situation"" today in a Facebook post , saying there was a ""a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it. We need to fix that."" Why it matters: Facebook has been under extraordinary pressure from lawmakers, regulators and Wall Street to respond to the issue. Read more toggle Show less Keep reading ""We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you. I've been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn't happen again. The good news is that the most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago. But we also made mistakes, there's more to do, and we need to step up and do it."" — Zuckerberg Facebook also announced concrete actions in a separate post . It will: Notify users if it knows an app has been misusing data. ""Moving forward, if we remove an app for misusing data, we will tell everyone who used it."" Turn off access for unused apps. ""If someone hasn’t used an app within the last three months, we will turn off the app’s access to their information."" Limit the amount of data given to those that use Facebook Login, its authentication platform Go back and review pre-2014 apps that, like the one at the center of this scandal, had access to wide swaths of data including information not just by those using the apps, but also their friends. ""We will conduct a full audit of any app with suspicious activity. If we find developers that misused personally identifiable information, we will ban them from our platform."" But there is a ton that wasn't said in either post, including his response to criticisms over how long Facebook took to disclose what it knew in this case as well as the many calls for new regulations and for company executives to testify. Sandberg too : Also breaking her silence was Sheryl Sandberg , who shared Zuckerberg's post and adding ""You deserve to have your information protected - and we'll keep working to make sure you feel safe on Facebook. Your trust is at the core of our service. We know that and we will work to earn it."" Initial reactions : Shares of Facebook inched up after the post, though many on Twitter noted how modest the specific changes being are. Meanwhile, Sen. Ed Markey replied to Zuckerberg , saying ""You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath."" But, but, but: What Zuckerberg didn't say in his note . What's next : Zuckerberg is set to appear on CNN tonight. Plus box Technology facebook twitter linkedin copy Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript)  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1044] _________ _______ ___ ___ ___ _____ _  _ _ _ | | | \ | | | | | | / ____| | | | | | (_) |__ __| | _ \ | | ' | ' ' | | _ _| |__ ___ _ __ __| | ___| |_ __ _ | | | | \ \ | '_ / '_/ / | | | | | | '_ \ / _ \ '__/ _` |/ _ \ | |/ _` | | | | | | | | / / | |___| |_| | |_) | __/ | | (_| | __/ | | (_| | '___' '___' '___' '_______ / '____/ \_____\__, |_.__/ \___|_| \__,_|\___|_|_|\__,_|    __/ |    |___/ Design by: —————————— ALEXANDER GRIFFIOEN ✉alexanderthenextweb.com ✎@oscaralexander ✈Amsterdam, NL Implementation by: —————————————————— LAURA GONZÁLEZ | PABLO ROMÁN | JAVIER NEGRE ✉laurathenextweb.com | ✉pablothenextweb.com | ✉javithenextweb.com ✎@freezydorito | ✎@pabloroman | ✎@javi_negre ✈Oviedo, ES | ✈Amsterdam, NL | ✈Barcelona, ES GORDAN KONDEV | JULIO FOULQUIÉ ✉gordan女thenextweb.com | ✉juliothenextweb.com ✈Amsterdam, NL | ✎@julioelpoeta  | ✈Montevideo, UY  Aren't you thirsty? Why don't you cyberdelia.knock() on the door?    News Conference TNW NYC Index TQ Deals Answers TNW X News Conference New York Index TQ Deals Answers TNW X Contact Jobs Advertise Team About Latest Hard Fork The Next Police Full stack Investing 2.0 Have a cookie   TNW uses cookies to personalize content and ads to  make our site easier for you to use.  We do also share that information with third parties for  advertising & analytics.  Got it!  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1045] Zuckerberg: Cambridge Analytica leak a “breach of trust” with users | Ars Technica    cache miss 60:single/meta:9a944e348a2c1cf2c49f452930ac6899   Biz & IT Tech Science Policy Cars Gaming & Culture Forums Subscriptions  Close  Navigate Videos Features Reviews Ars Approved RSS Feeds Mobile Site About Ars Staff Directory Contact Us Advertise with Ars Reprints Filter by topic Biz & IT Tech Science Policy Cars Gaming & Culture Forums Settings Front page layout Grid  List  Wide  Site theme   Sign in  Comment activity Sign up or login to join the discussions!  Stay logged in Having trouble? Sign up   Move slower and break fewer things — Zuckerberg: Cambridge Analytica leak a “breach of trust” with users The Trump-linked consulting firm harvested data from 50 million Facebook users. - Mar 21, 2018 9:24 pm UTC  Enlarge CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at Facebook's 2016 ""F8"" conference. Facebook  cache miss 60:single/related:9a944e348a2c1cf2c49f452930ac6899 Cambridge Analytica & Facebook Cambridge Analytica files for bankruptcy amidst “siege” of negative attention Cambridge Analytica shuts down after Facebook user data scandal Facebook building a “simple way to clear your cookies and history” Man behind Cambridge Analytica’s Facebook data mining says he’s sorry Facebook CEO puts on suit and a smile to try to seduce, assuage senators After days of silence, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has responded to the controversy over the 2014 leak of private Facebook user data to a firm that went on to do political consulting work for the Donald Trump campaign in 2016. Cambridge Analytica got the data by paying a psychology professor, Aleksandr Kogan, to create a Facebook personality quiz that harvested data not only about its own users but also about users' friends. Kogan amassed data from around 50 million users and turned it over to Cambridge. Further Reading Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal, explained [Updated] Zuckerberg says that when Facebook learned about this transfer in 2015, it got Kogan and Cambridge to certify that they had deleted the data. But media reports this weekend suggested that Cambridge had lied and retained the data throughout the 2016 presidential campaign. ""This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica, and Facebook. But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it,"" Zuckerberg said. Zuckerberg says Facebook changed its rules back in 2014 to prevent third parties from harvesting data the way Kogan did. But he says Facebook is now going to take additional steps to make sure data harvested four years ago isn't being misused today. ""We will investigate all apps that had access to large amounts of information,"" Zuckerberg wrote. He promised a ""full audit of any app with suspicious activity"" and said any developer who refused an audit would be banned from the platform. Meanwhile, Facebook is tightening its rules for apps accessing user information. If an app goes unused for three months, it will lose access to user data. Apps will initially only get access to users' name, profile photo, and email address. Finally, Facebook is going to place a tool for managing privacy settings at the top of the news feed. These options are already available in privacy settings, but not everyone knows about the option. Zuckerberg hopes that putting the settings at the top of the news feed will make sure every Facebook user sees it. Promoted Comments  jump to post Lol. And everyone laughed at me for staying on MySpace. Well, who's laughing now?    cache hit 60:single/author:a5636204bd99386aad32bca00697f752 Timothy B. Lee Timothy is a senior reporter covering tech policy, blockchain technologies and the future of transportation. He lives in Washington DC. Email timothy.lee@arstechnica.com Twitter @binarybits    You must login or create an account to comment. Previous story Next story Related Stories Sponsored Stories Powered by Today on Ars  RSS Feeds View Mobile Site About Us Subscribe Contact Us Staff Advertise with us Reprints Newsletter Signup Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox. Begin MailChimp Signup Form  End mc_embed_signup  CNMN Collection WIRED Media Group © 2018 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18) and Ars Technica Addendum (effective 5/17/2012). Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices cache hit 60:single/javascript-footer:9a944e348a2c1cf2c49f452930ac6899 Google Analytics start Google Analytics end Parse.ly start Parse.ly end Adobe Tag Mgr.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1046] MacLeod loves you! Facebook's Cambridge Analytica scandal: From Trump to data mining - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again  Reviews Best Products Versus Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Monitors Networking Phones Printers Smart Home Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News Apple Computers Culture Google Internet Microsoft Mobile Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features CNET @ Work Photo Galleries  Newsletters Magazine Video CNET Top 5 How To Smart Home Tech Today News Special Features 3:59 CNET Podcasts Laptops Phones Tablets TVs How To Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Phones Photography Security Smart Home Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product Compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Home Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Best Cars News Reviews Recalls Pictures AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Concept Cars Electric Cars The Best Affordable Cars Crossovers Electric Cars Family Cars Hybrids Luxury Cars Sedans SUVs Deals The Cheapskate Best Tech Under $50 Best VPN Services Best Web Hosting Best Password Managers By Category All Deals Audio Cameras Desktops Hard Drives Laptops Monitors Phones Printers Software Tablets TVs Download    Australia China France Germany Japan Korea Middle East United Kingdom US Editions English Español My Profile Forums Sign Out  Politics Leer en español Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and data mining: What you need to know The world's biggest social network is at the center of an international scandal involving voter data, the 2016 US presidential election and Brexit.          Consultants working for Donald Trump's presidential campaign exploited the personal Facebook data of millions. Last month,  The New York Times and the UK's Guardian and Observer newspapers  broke news the social networking giant was duped by researchers, who reportedly gained access to the data of millions of   and then may have misused it for political ads during the 2016 US presidential election. Facebook said it was investigating the reports, which involved data consultancy Cambridge Analytica.   Over the past three-plus weeks, the situation has snowballed.  was in Washington this week to testify before Congress. Meanwhile, the number of accounts affected from initial reports of 50 million. Separately, Facebook said it was purging pages linked to a that's known for creating fake online identities and posting on both sides of politically divisive issues. Cambridge Analytica in a way that violated the social network's policies. It then reportedly tapped the information to build psychographic profiles of users and their friends, which were used for targeted political ads in the UK's Brexit referendum campaign, as well as by Trump's team during the 2016 US election.  Facebook says it told Cambridge Analytica to delete the data, but reports suggest the info wasn't destroyed. Cambridge Analytica says it complies with the social network's rules, only receives data ""obtained legally and fairly,"" and did wipe out the data Facebook is worried about. Here's what you need to know.   Did Facebook lose control of your information?  "	"What is Cambridge Analytica? Cambridge Analytica is a UK-based data analytics firm, whose parent company is  Strategic Communication Laboratories . Cambridge Analytica helps political campaigns reach potential voters online. The firm combines data from multiple sources, including online information and polling, to build "" profiles "" of voters. It then uses computer programs to predict voter behavior, which could be influenced through specialized advertisements aimed at the voters. Cambridge Analytica isn't working with a small amount of user data. The company says it has "" 5,000 data points on over 230 million American voters "" -- or pretty much all of us, considering there are an estimated 250 million people of voting age in the US .  The company has since faced criticism for what executives, including CEO Alexander Nix, said . In the videos, Nix discussed he'd perform as part of his efforts to sway elections. ""We have lots of history of things,"" Nix said in the videos, ""I'm just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done."" Nix has since been . His comments ""do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,"" the company said in a  statement . "	"What did Cambridge Analytica do? Facebook said in a statement on March 16 that Cambridge Analytica received user data from Aleksandr Kogan, a lecturer at the University of Cambridge . Kogan reportedly created an app called ""thisisyourdigitallife"" that ostensibly offered personality predictions to users while calling itself a research tool for psychologists. The app asked users to log in using their Facebook accounts. As part of the login process, it asked for access to users' Facebook profiles, locations, what they liked on the service, and importantly, their friends' data as well. The problem, Facebook says, is that Kogan then sent this user data to Cambridge Analytica without user permission, something that's against the social network's rules. ""Although Kogan gained access to this information in a legitimate way and through the proper channels that governed all developers on Facebook at that time, he did not subsequently abide by our rules,"" Paul Grewal, a vice president and general counsel at Facebook, said in a statement . Kogan didn't respond to requests for comment. The New York Times said he cited nondisclosure agreements and declined to provide details about what happened, saying his personality prediction program was ""a very standard vanilla Facebook app."" A former Cambridge Analytica executive, Brittany Kaiser, said it's possible more people's profiles have been caught up in the scandal than the 87 million Facebook has so far counted. ""It is almost certain,"" on April 17.  "	"What does this have to do with Trump? The Trump campaign hired Cambridge Analytica  to run data operations  during the 2016 election. Steve Bannon, who eventually became Trump's chief strategist, was also reportedly vice president of Cambridge Analytica's board . The company helped the campaign identify voters to target with ads, and gave advice on how best to focus its approach , such as where to make campaign stops. It also helped with strategic communication, like what to say in speeches. ""The applications of what we do are endless,"" Nix said last year in an interview with CNET sister site TechRepublic. The White House didn't respond to a request for comment. Cambridge Analytica also worked with other 2016 presidential election campaigns, according to its website and various media reports. Those included the campaigns of Sen. Ted Cruz and candidate Ben Carson, who went on to join Trump's cabinet as secretary of housing and urban development .  "	"Why did Facebook ban Cambridge Analytica from its service?  Facebook said Cambridge Analytica ""certified"" three years ago it had deleted the information, as did Kogan. But since then, Facebook said, it's received reports that not all the user data was deleted. The New York Times reported at the outset of this controversy that at least some of it remains. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it deleted all the data and is in contact with Facebook about the issue. Meanwhile, Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower who detailed how Cambridge Analytica reportedly misappropriated the Facebook data, . A few days later, he to discuss his situation and the larger controversy. ""I'm actually really confused by Facebook,"" Wylie said. ""They make me out to be this suspect or some kind of nefarious person."" "	"Was Facebook hacked? The New York Times characterized the original problem as a data ""breach"" and said it's ""one of the largest data leaks in the social network's history."" That's in part because the roughly 270,000 users who gave Kogan access to their information allowed him to collect data on their friends as well. In total, more than 87 million Facebook users are said to have been affected. The misuse of this data is what The New York Times zeroed in on. Can Facebook be blamed for Cambridge Analytica? Facebook's app cleanup may be harder than Mark Zuckerberg thinks Facebook denies logging users' calls, texts without permission Facebook suspends whistleblower's account after report How to delete your Facebook account once and for all Facebook, however, says that while Kogan mishandled its data, . The problem is that Kogan was supposed to hold on to the information himself, not hand it over to Cambridge Analytica or anyone else. Because the information was accessed through normal means, Facebook disputes the characterization of the incident as a breach. ""People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked,"" the company said. Of course, critics point out that Kogan was able to do what he allegedly did because Facebook allowed app developers to request and receive access to the data of users' friends. Facebook changed that policy in 2015, prohibiting the practice . "	"Wait, so Facebook allows apps to access my data? When you log in to an app using your Facebook account, the developer typically asks for access to information the social network has. Sometimes it's just your name and email address. Other times, it's your location and your friends' data too. All this is pretty much what any app developer that works with Facebook was allowed to do until 2015, when Facebook prevented app developers from accessing friends' data. Everything else, though, is still fair game. Facebook says its rules specify that developers can't share the information they receive with other firms. That's where the problem with Kogan and Cambridge Analytica comes up. The company has an app review process it puts developers through. Once they're cleared, things are A-OK. You hand your information over to app developers all the time. Don't like it? Think before you click. And read the requests from app developers more carefully . Facebook, by the way, is hoping to stop the next Cambridge Analytica. It's offered a bounty to . The company has also to help you identify which apps have access to your data, as well as those to strengthen security of your profile. Facebook also made it easier to download data it has on you. "	"Could this lead to more regulation? Zuckerberg himself said it might.  ""I'm actually not sure we shouldn't be regulated,"" he said  on March 21. ""The question is, what is the right regulation?"" He answered that question on April 6,  , a proposed law that would require tech companies to disclose how political ads are targeted and how much they cost. Regardless of whether that bill becomes a law, there's one thing we know for sure:  . After decades of (mostly) treating tech companies as favored children, legislators and government regulators are increasingly taking a tougher stance against them. Already, .  ""This latest fiasco could reignite the debate within the Beltway and EU around a tighter regulatory environment Facebook and its social platform brethren could face going forward,"" Daniel Ives, an analyst at GBH Insights , wrote in a note to investors right after the controversy erupted. ""This represents another critical period for Facebook to hand hold and assure its users and regulators around tighter content standards and platform security in light of this latest PR nightmare."" Facebook also faces an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission over whether it . Companies that have settled previous FTC actions, the US agency said, must comply with FTC order provisions imposing privacy and data security requirements. ""Accordingly, the FTC takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook,"" the agency said in a statement on March 26. ""Today, the FTC is confirming that it has an open non-public investigation into these practices."" The FTC takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook. US Federal Trade Commission The consent decree required that Facebook must get users to agree to and must notify them about the social network sharing their data. Facebook earlier told The Washington Post it rejects ""any suggestion of violation of the consent decree."" In Europe, where regulators have traditionally taken a tough stance on social media and privacy, the president of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, tweeted that EU lawmakers ""will investigate fully, calling digital platforms to account."" In the UK, Damian Collins, the chair of Parliament's committee overseeing digital matters, said  and answer questions directly. What happened in Zuckerberg's appearance before Congress? A little over three weeks after the Cambridge Analytica news broke, Zuckerberg went to Washington, where over two days he endured 10 hours of questioning by congressional committees. Echoing earlier statements, he apologized to lawmakers for Facebook's recent missteps and voiced support for some regulation of the tech industry. In his first day of testimony, he did score some points. Zuckerberg addressed a room full of  Senate Judiciary  and  Commerce Committee  members who struggled to understand what Facebook does , how the social platform works, and how to regulate it. He escaped largely unscathed, having settled into his role as both an explainer of technology and a receiver of the occasional finger-wag. But , things got a little rougher. His appearance before the House of Representatives' Energy and Commerce Committee was defined by pointed questions from lawmakers who appeared to have done their homework. Some, like New Jersey Rep. Frank Pallone, hammered Zuckerberg on default privacy settings. California Rep. Anna Eshoo asked Zuckerberg if  his own data  was swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. (He said that it was.) And Florida Rep. Kathy Castor and New Mexico Rep. Ben Lujan raised concerns about how much Facebook follows people as they browse the web -- and whether people without accounts on the social media network still get tracked via "" ."" Zuckerberg said that he wasn't familiar with that term and that Facebook collects data on nonusers for security purposes. ""Your business is built on trust, and you're losing trust,"" Lujan said. But apparently Facebook hasn't lost Wall Street's confidence. The company's shares rose approximately 5 percent over the two days of testimony. Was this similar to what the Obama campaign did on Facebook? Sort of. The Obama campaign did collect a similar level of data from its app, which includes both your information and your friend's information.  But as Politifact notes, users were willingly giving up that information and knew it was going to a political campaign. The Obama campaign used your friend's data to figure out who may or may not be willing to vote for him, and sent messages to users to persuade their friends.  That's different from the Cambridge Analytica situation, since most users taking the digital life quiz had no idea that the data would be used for political purposes.  What's Facebook doing about this? After five long days, Zuckerberg on March 21 with a nearly 1,000-word post on his Facebook page. (C'mon, did you really expect it to show up on Twitter?) The post was his first since  since March 2 , when he shared a photo of his family celebrating the Jewish holiday of  Purim .  Zuckerberg acknowledged that Facebook had made mistakes with users' information. ""We have a responsibility to protect your data,"" he wrote. ""And if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you."" He's since sat down for several media interviews, and on April 4, . ""Life is learning from mistakes,"" Zuckerberg said. ""At the end of the day, this is my responsibility. I started this place, I run it, I'm responsible."" The company, he said, is now facing two central questions: ""Can we get our systems under control and second, can we make sure that our systems aren't used to undermine democracy,"" Zuckerberg said. ""It's not enough to give people a voice, we have to make sure that people are not using that voice to spread disinformation,"" he added. And, specifically, he acknowledged that Facebook has ""to ensure that everyone in our ecosystem protects people's information."" We have a responsibility to protect your data. And if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg He's promised to investigate apps that had access to ""large amounts of information"" before the company made changes to how much information third-party apps could access in 2018. Facebook will conduct a full audit of apps that exhibit suspicious behavior and bar developers who don't agree to audits. On April 6, Facebook said it was banning AggregateIQ, another political analytics firm that's reportedly tied to Cambridge Analytica's parent company, SCL. (Aggregate IQ denies this connection.) Facebook said it instituted the ban out of concern that . Facebook's public missteps have brought up other concerns about Facebook too. One example is a memo leaked to BuzzFeed penned by Andrew ""Boz"" Bosworth, a top Facebook executive. The 2016 memo advocates  , regardless of whether people use Facebook to bully and harass one another.  ""The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good,"" he wrote at the time. He's since said he was trying to stir debate, and didn't agree with what he'd written. Facebook is also planning to , limiting the information it gives apps to your name, photo and email address. It'll also revoke an app's access to your data if you haven't used it for three months.  The company is also planning to further restrict political advertising, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's COO, said in an interview with Bloomberg . ""If you were using hate-based language in ads for elections, we're drawing those lines much tighter and applying them uniformly,"" she said. Last, Facebook will begin displaying a gauge at the top of your News Feed that lets you know which apps you've used and let you revoke their permissions. All of that will provide comfort to many users, but for others ...  Facebook needs to regain the public's trust, says New...  Are people bailing from Facebook? They are, though it's still too early to know if that'll have a substantial effect on Facebook's gargantuan user numbers. Right off the bat, the hashtag -- backed by, notably, who sold the messaging service to Facebook for $19 billion. We're also starting to see some action that could hit Facebook in the wallet. Within days of the scandal erupting, Firefox maker Mozilla said it would because of data privacy concerns, and it launched a petition to ask the social network to improve its privacy settings. Meanwhile, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has taken a different kind of stand. Prompted by an inquiry from a Twitter user, he quickly . So did Playboy, . Beyond those high profile moves, a recent survey from the anonymous employee social network Blind found that . Coverage of Facebook has turned negative too, .  Still, Zuckerberg said in a call on April 4 that the larger #DeleteFacebook .  Ultimately, reform is what's needed, said . ""For many years, I never questioned it,"" Kaiser said. ""That's the way that the political system works. That's the way that advertising works. That's the way that every single industry that exists in the entire basis of digital communications works. I do really understand the industry, and I have the ability to be a voice for change."" "	"What can I do? There isn't much. You may've been swept up in this without even knowing it. You don't have to have downloaded Kogan's app to have had your information accessed, since the statements and articles say the app slurped up information about users' friends. Cambridge Analytica also doesn't appear to offer a way for you to request your information be removed from its systems. The company didn't respond to a request for comment. As for Facebook, you can always try to lodge a complaint with Zuckerberg. You should also and consider these ways to . And if you're really unhappy, you could . You could also join the #DeleteFacebook campaign. Here's do it. ""Cambridge Analytica used surveys and a number of other tactics to exploit the loophole in the Facebook API that allowed them to extract data from the social network,"" @DanPatterson said CBSN. https://t.co/218zPalXGu pic.twitter.com/WEbp2DZ2lO — CBS News (@CBSNews) March 17, 2018 First published March 17 at 1:52 p.m. PT. Updates, March 18 at 3:21 p.m.: Adds analyst comment about regulation; March 19 at 10:17 a.m.: Adds info on calls for action in Washington and Europe; 5:14 p.m.: Includes summary of Washington Post report questioning whether Facebook violated consent decree; March 20 at 9:32 a.m.: Adds info on potential FTC investigation; 3:32 p.m.: Includes details on Zuckerberg's silence and Channel 4's undercover investigation of Cambridge Analytica; 6:14 p.m.:  Adds comment from Chris Wylie and details about #DeleteFacebook campaign and class-action lawsuit; March 21 at 1:57 p.m.: Includes Zuckerberg's Facebook post and plans to improve data security; 6:35 p.m.:  Adds Zuckerberg's comments in interviews; March 23 at 12:18 p.m.: Adds info on Mozilla and Musk seeking distance from Facebook. March 26 at 9:12 a.m. PT:   Adds FTC's confirmation that it's investigating Facebook.  10:17 a.m. PT:   Adds Senate Judiciary's invitation for Zuckerberg to testify.  March 28 at 4:57 p.m. PT : Adds details about Facebook's new privacy tools, a survey about tech workers deleting Facebook and Playboy shutting down its Facebook presence.  March 30 at 10:35 a.m.   PT : Adds details about a leaked Facebook memo advocating growth despite issues like online harassment. April 4 at 6:35 a.m. PT: Adds that Zuckerberg will testify before Congress on April 11.  April 4 at 1:02 p.m. PT:  Updates the number of accounts affected; 5:13 p.m. : Adds Zuckerberg comments from conference call with journalists. April 5 at 3:03 p.m. PT: Adds comment from Sandberg about political advertising.  April 6 at 9:39 p.m. PT : Adds Facebook banning AggregateIQ and Zuckerberg supporting the Honest Ads Act.  April 9 at 11:40 a.m. PT: Adds a note about the Obama campaign. April 12 at 10:51 a.m. PT:   Added information about Zuckerberg's appearances before the US Senate and House of Representatives.  April 18 at 5:10 p.m. PT:   Added latest information about Cambridge Analytica and how coverage of Facebook has gone negative.  Protect your data on Facebook   iHate : CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet. Tech Enabled : CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility. reading • Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and data mining: What you need to know May 31 • Mark Zuckerberg hammered by shareholders over scandals May 30 • Kaspersky Lab lawsuits against US thrown out May 30 • Facebook COO Sandberg and CTO Schroepfer continue apology tour May 29 • Microsoft President: Facebook's Zuckerberg's testimony was smart • See All Share your voice  Tags US Tech Policy Politics Tech Industry Internet Digital Media Cambridge Analytica Facebook Donald Trump    Close General comments Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it clean and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy , which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.    Download the CNET app About CNET Privacy Policy Ad Choice Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Help Center  © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. Affiliate Disclosure CNET may get a commission from retail offers. Top Brands  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1047] Speedcurve, LUX - Start Speedcurve, LUX - End Facebook-Cambridge Analytica shows the need for a new privacy law - Business Insider   Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript)       BI ACCOUNTS BUSINESS INSIDER BI PRIME SIGN OUT BI INTELLIGENCE  Edition  Menu Icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Edition               BI ACCOUNTS BUSINESS INSIDER BI PRIME SIGN OUT BI INTELLIGENCE  Tech  Enterprise  Science  Advertising  Media  Transportation  Finance  Markets  Retail  Your Money  Markets Insider  Politics  Military & Defense  News  Strategy  Careers  Life  Entertainment  Travel  Sports  Intelligence All  BI ACCOUNTS BUSINESS INSIDER BI PRIME SIGN OUT BI INTELLIGENCE  Edition US UK DE AUS FR IN IT JP MY NL SE PL SG ZA ES     * Copyright © 2018 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service Privacy Policy Cookies Policy    .   Sitemap Disclaimer Commerce Policy Made in NYC   Stock quotes by   finanzen.net    Tech Insider The Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal is the textbook case for why we need new privacy protections      Mar. 21, 2018, 2:34 PM      The Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal has highlighted the lack of privacy protections in the US. Thanks to the lack of privacy protections, companies can generally collect whatever information they want on consumers and do with it as they wish — as long as they disclose what they're doing first. The scandal may have lots of different results, but one ought to be new, comprehensive privacy protections. The Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal may lead to a lot of things, from a congressional subpoena for Mark Zuckerberg to a widespread movement by Facebook users to delete their accounts. But here's hoping for one particular outcome — that it leads policymakers in Washington to finally make the protection of consumers' private data a priority. The US needs a comprehensive privacy law. And it needs regulators who will vigorously enforce not only that law but the privacy protections already on the books. Because whatever else we might discover about Cambridge Analytica's illegitimate harvesting of Facebook user data, this much is clear: When it comes to consumers' privacy, industry self-regulation has been a failure. Advertisement The technology and related industries collect far too much personal data on the users of their services. They generally do a terrible job of getting actual informed consent from their users for the collection and use of that data. And they've shown over and over again that they can't be trusted to keep all that data safe and secure or limit who has access to it. The US ""desperately needs to update its consumer-privacy laws,"" says Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a consumer-advocacy group that pushes for privacy protections. ""Our current system truly isn't working at almost an egregious level."" Facebook allowed Cambridge Analytica to glean data on millions of its users In the latest Facebook scandal, a university researcher persuaded 270,000 Facebook users to install a personality-test app. Through the app, the researcher got access to the Facebook data of not only those users but of their friends as well — an estimated 50 million people in total. Despite asserting that the user data would be used only for academic purposes, the researcher violated Facebook's rules and passed it on to Cambridge Analytica, the data-analysis firm that later worked with Donald Trump's presidential campaign, When Facebook found out that the firm had amassed data on all those users, Facebook asked Cambridge Analytica to delete the data. It also later changed its terms of service so that app developers couldn't gain access to the data of users' friends. Advertisement Just because Facebook decided to be a good actor doesn't mean Twitter or Google or LinkedIn or the next startup that we haven't heard of yet is going to be a good actor. But Facebook has come under fire — deservedly — because it allowed Cambridge Analytica to gain access to the data of millions of users without those users' consent or even knowledge. Even after it became aware that the data firm had gotten access to users' information illegitimately, it apparently didn't alert those users. What's more, Facebook reportedly did little to ensure that Cambridge Analytica and its app developer actually deleted the data. How many other apps with access to Facebook user data might have also ignored Facebook's rules and secretly passed the information on to another party? And how effective are Facebook's systems for preventing this kind of thing from happening? The truth is, we simply don't know. And Facebook has not exactly been forthcoming or transparent in sharing details with the public so far. In changing its terms of service to restrict app developers from accessing the data of a user's friends, Facebook seems to have realized that it had crossed a line with regard to how it handles users' information, said Allie Bohm, policy counsel at Public Knowledge, a consumer-research group. But there's nothing to stop Facebook from changing its terms of service again to allow that kind of information gathering, she said. And even if Facebook wouldn't do that, there's nothing to stop other companies from allowing such data gathering.          Advertisement ""Just because Facebook decided to be a good actor doesn't mean Twitter or Google or LinkedIn or the next startup that we haven't heard of yet is going to be a good actor,"" Bohm said. ""This speaks to why Congress needs to step in to address privacy and data use."" Privacy protections in the US are spotty The reason that Facebook and other companies can allow such data access is that privacy protections in the US are spotty at best. You've probably heard of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which protects the privacy of health information. You may have heard of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which guards the privacy of kids under 13. And you may have run into Gramm-Leach-Bliley when signing a mortgage or other financial document; it protects the privacy of personal financial information. But outside of those specific areas, the US has few rules to govern what kinds and how much personal information companies can collect or what they can do with it. During initial commercialization of the internet in the late 1990s, privacy advocates raised concerns about the data that online companies were even then starting to collect. The big push at the time was for companies to post privacy polices that spelled out for users what information they were gathering on them and what they planned to do with it. The idea was that companies should seek to get their users' informed consent to their data-collection practices. But those privacy policies turned out to be something of a joke. There were typically so long and so dense with legalese that as a practical matter, they were impossible to read for most consumers. And instead of protecting consumers' privacy, they typically served as legal cover for companies to collect all the data on users' they wanted. As long as they spelled out what they were doing, companies were protected — no matter if few customers actual read the documents or really understood how their data was being used.          Advertisement ""I don't think you can consider that reasonable consent in people's digital lives,"" said Nuala O'Connor, CEO of the Center for Democracy and Technology. Companies are generally free to collect whatever data they'd like But because there's no overarching privacy law or federal government agency to spell out privacy rules, companies have been free to collect whatever information they liked. The Federal Trade Commission has nominal authority over privacy matters, but it's part of the joke. It's generally limited to guarding consumers against fraud and deceptive practices. As long as companies' data gather adhered to what they disclosed in their privacy policies, the FTC didn't have a problem with them — no matter how much data they collected or what they did with it. In recent years, companies such as Facebook, Apple, and Google have given users more options to control who has access to their private information. But those controls are often buried within settings menus that are typically difficult to navigate much less understand. And even then, there's a problem of what we might call information asymmetry. The companies that want access to users' personal data almost always have a better sense of how valuable that information is and how that information can be used than do users themselves. Even if Facebook users had known that Cambridge Analytica had gotten access to their personal data, it's doubtful they would have understood that that data could be used to create psychological profiles of them that could be in turn used to try to influence how they voted. Such disproportionate awareness makes a mockery of the whole notion of informed consent. We need new privacy protections So what's needed? Likely something like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that's about to take effect in Europe. That legislation, which is being put in place by all of the countries in the EU, forces companies that want to collect information on consumers to spell out clearly the information they seek to collect and get consumers to explicitly consent to each and every specific practice. It also gives consumers the right to see what information companies have collected on them; it gives them the right to take that data with them to other companies; and it requires companies to notify affecting consumers in the case of a data breach within 72 hours. ""I really like the GDPR,"" Bohm said. She added: ""I don't see any reason why companies shouldn't be required to do that sort of thing here.""          Advertisement But I'd advocate Congress going even further than the Europeans and make clear that some data collection and uses of data are out of bounds, as well as setting guidelines on how long companies can keep data. For example, what Cambridge Analytica was able to do — surreptitiously gain access to the personal data of millions of consumers without their knowledge or consent — just shouldn't be allowed. To be sure, I'm a realist. Consumer advocates have been pushing for a comprehensive privacy law in the US for decades to no avail. Republicans in Congress are generally opposed to regulation of any kind and Democrats are closely tied to the very tech companies that oppose efforts to put new privacy laws in place. And even if they were all onboard, this Congress has been singularly unproductive at doing much of anything. So even at this moment, the chances that Congress will pass a new privacy law are not great. But one can hope. And even if Congress ducks it yet again, this issue is not going away. Mark Zuckerberg is acting like a man who can’t be fired — and the unique way his stock is structured could be why  Facebook Cambridge Analytica Privacy GDPR FTC BI Prime        render partials module.partial with data module.data  Advertisement render partials module.partial with data module.data Advertisement render partials module.partial with data module.data  render partials module.partial with data module.data    render partials module.partial with data module.data  render partials module.partial with data module.data  Advertisement          * Copyright © 2018 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our   Terms of Service Privacy Policy Cookies Policy     .   Sitemap Disclaimer Commerce Policy Made in NYC    Stock quotes by   finanzen.net Edition              "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1048]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - If you talk about Russian propaganda, remember: Britain has myths too | Afua Hirsch | Opinion | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons More      If you talk about Russian propaganda, remember: Britain has myths too   Wed 21 Mar 2018 Last modified on Wed 21 Mar 2018         ‘Surely the desire to have the world see things from a host nation’s perspective is the job of state-sponsored global media.’ Photograph: Mladen Antonov/AFP/Getty hen Edward Bernays, the father of modern propaganda , set out in 1928 to explain what it was , he cited not Pravda, or puff from the Weimar Republic, but the New York Times. His point – analysing the front-page stories on relief for China, Zionism in the Middle East, and a report by President Hoover on US living standards – was not that American newspapers were propaganda, but that everything was. Bernays, inspired in part by the work of his uncle Sigmund Freud, was hardly a glowing example of best practice. He used his command of propaganda – described as “the conscious and intelligent manipulation of the organised habits and opinions of the masses” – for causes as diverse as civil rights, and persuading American women to spend more money on cigarettes. “Propaganda carries to many minds an unpleasant connotation,” Bernays wrote, “yet whether [it] is good or bad depends upon the merit of the cause urged, and the correctness of the information published.” Corbyn: I would still do business with Putin despite Skripal attack Read more Almost a century later, we still misunderstand propaganda as something that only other, more evil people, organisations and states do – and none more so than Vladimir Putin’s Russia. The poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal has brought renewed focus on what seems to us the remarkable perspective of the state-funded broadcaster Russia Today (RT), which paints the whole incident as either a deliberate attempt by Theresa May to frame Putin, or as British Russophobia gone mad. But Russia is not the only state to practise propaganda – they are just doing it less well, I would argue. For a Russian MP to appear on Radio 4’s Today programme likening Theresa May to Hitler, and Poland’s former foreign minister to a “prostitute”, as the Duma member Vitaly Milonov did last week , or to suggest, as the Russian ambassador to Britain did on RT, that the Skripals’ poisoning is really a British effort to divert attention from Brexit hardly seems very convincing. And if the ostensible point of RT is to bring more English-speaking people round to Russia’s way of seeing things, it’s bad propaganda, failing on its own terms. But the outrage surrounding the very fact that RT tries to push its narrative surprised me. Surely the desire to have the world see things from a host nation’s perspective is the job of state-sponsored global media. It’s the reason Britain developed its BBC World Service – initially, let’s not forget, called the Empire Service – and while the BBC and journalists like me who appear on the modern BBC certainly believe in its impartiality, that’s not necessarily how it’s seen abroad. The power of the model explains why so many more states are doing it, not least the rapidly expanding Turkish state international broadcaster TRT, and Qatar-funded al-Jazeera, all of which seek to bring a particular perspective rooted in the nations from which they are run. ‘History shall be kind to me, for I shall write it,' is a quote often attributed to Winston Churchill You could argue that the media are failing on their own terms everywhere. Perceived propagandisation is one of the factors diminishing trust in them across Europe. Indeed, one study that found fewer than half of people in many European democracies now agree that they can trust most of the news, most of the time. But that doesn’t mean we are averse to a little propaganda of our own, especially when it comes to our history. More of us than we knew may have been influenced in our voting choices by Cambridge Analytica and their ilk, and when it comes to the movies, Hollywood propaganda is on a roll. The former Telegraph editor Charles Moore is no leftie, but he describes the movie Darkest Hour – the Oscar-winning take on Winston Churchill’s achievement in overcoming the greatest wartime odds in 1940 – as a work of “superb Brexit propaganda”. I would call the film propaganda, more generally – and a great example of the kind of myth we like to promote in modern Britain. Churchill has been rebranded as a tube-travelling, minority-adoring genius, in line with a general understanding of him as “the greatest Briton of all time”. There’s a strange cognitive dissonance you experience working on the inconvenient parts of Churchill’s legacy – as I have been recently for a documentary I’m making. Two serious historians have told me in recent weeks that when they began researching less popular episodes in Churchill’s life, they were warned that doing so would either finish their careers, preclude them from promotion, or make them outcasts in academia. Tories attack Juncker's 'nauseating' letter congratulating Putin Read more And for a historian to state a set of facts about Churchill’s legacy in Bengal, Mesopotamia or Sudan, as David Olusoga did at a literary festival this week, is still regarded as a news story at best, at worst as a kind of unpatriotic travesty . Churchill himself, of course, was a grandmaster of propaganda. The quote so often attributed to him – “history shall be kind to me, for I shall write it” – comes, says one theory, from a boozy birthday dinner he had in 1943 with Roosevelt and Stalin. Like most British people, I was raised in a country steeped in a sense of occupying the moral high ground, far too sophisticated and open-minded to conflate news and storytelling with propaganda. But that perception is hard to square with our tendency to attack anyone who offers a different narrative – albeit based on fact. I will probably suffer such a fate just for writing this column. One of the major differences between us and Russia is that you couldn’t have this debate about history and values there. What a shame it would be for us to waste the fact that we can. Afua Hirsch is a Guardian columnist Sergei Skripal Opinion  Russia Europe comment            View all comments >  Order by newest oldest recommendations Show 25 50 100 All Threads collapsed expanded unthreaded Loading comments… Trouble loading? View more comments   Most viewed    The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1049]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - Facebook scandal: I am being used as scapegoat – academic who mined data | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland More      Facebook scandal: I am being used as scapegoat – academic who mined data  Wed 21 Mar 2018 First published on Wed 21 Mar 2018    This article is over 2 months old      Kogan harvested the personal details of 50 million Facebook users via a personality app. Composite: Guardian Design Team The academic at the centre of Facebook’s data breach claims he has been unfairly scapegoated by the social network and Cambridge Analytica , the firm that acquired the information. Cambridge Analytica execs boast of role in getting Trump elected Read more Aleksandr Kogan, a Moldovan-born researcher from Cambridge University, admits harvesting the personal details of 30 million Facebook users via a personality app he developed. He then passed the data to Cambridge Analytica who assured him this was legal, he said. Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie told the Observer that the data Kogan obtained was used to influence the outcome of the US presidential election , a charge the firm denies. Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video Kogan told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Wednesday that he was being unjustly blamed for the scandal. He said: “My view is that I’m being basically used as a scapegoat by both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. Honestly we thought we were acting perfectly appropriately. We thought we were doing something that was really normal.” Last week Facebook announced it was suspending Cambridge Analytica and Kogan from the platform, pending further investigation over misuse of data. Facebook insists Kogan violated its platform policy by transferring data his app collected to Cambridge Analytica. It also said he had specifically assured Facebook that the data would never be used for commercial purposes. Kogan said the scandal raised questions about the business model of social networking companies. Kogan said: “The project that Cambridge Analytica has allegedly done, which is use people’s Facebook data for micro-targeting, is the primary use case for most data on these platforms. Facebook and Twitter and other platforms make their money through advertising and so there’s an agreement between the user of ‘hey, you will get this amazing product that costs billions of dollars to run and in return we can sell you to advertisers for micro-targeting’.” Are you leaving Facebook? Share your concerns on privacy with us Read more Kogan also disputed Cambridge Analytica’s claim that he had approached them with the idea. He said: “That is a fabrication. They approached me; in terms of the usage of Facebook data they wrote the terms of service for the app. They provided the legal advice that this was all appropriate. So I’m definitely surprised by their comments and I don’t think they are accurate.” He pointed out that it paid up to $800,000 to recruit about 200,000 people to use it. He said: “I have never profited from this in anyway personally. This money was paid mostly … for the participants – each person was paid $3 to $4 (£2.10 to £2.80), so that’s where really the money went.” Kogan said he was told that the scheme was legal but accepts he should have questioned the ethics of the exercise. He said: “They [Cambridge Analytica] communicated that this would be a fully commercial project and that terms of service would be ones that allowed a broad licence for usage. What was communicated to me strongly is that thousands and maybe tens of thousands of apps were doing the exact same thing. And this was a pretty normal use case of Facebook data.” Cambridge Analytica denies using the Facebook data during the Trump campaign. Kogan said: “We were assured by Cambridge Analytica that everything was perfectly legal and within the limits of the terms of service. One of the great mistakes I did here was that I just didn’t ask enough questions. While at Cambridge Kogan accepted a position at St Petersburg State University, and also took Russian government grants for research. Kogan laughed off suspicions that he is linked to the Kremlin. He said: “This one is pretty funny … anyone who knows me knows I’m a very happy-go-lucky goofy guy, the last one to have any real links to espionage.” Wylie claims most of the personal information harvested by Kogan’s app had been taken without authorisation. He said Cambridge Analytica used it to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. Kogan said he had no knowledge of how the information was subsequently used. He said he would feel “horrible” if the data had helped influence the election. “Mr Trump is not somebody whose values align well with mine,” he said. He also doubts it could have been useful. Kogan, who works at Cambridge University’s psychology department, said: “The accuracy of this data has been extremely exaggerated. In practice my best guess is that we were six times more likely to get everything wrong about a person as we were to get everything right about a person. I personally don’t think micro-targeting is an effective way to use such data sets. “It could have only hurt the campaign. What Cambridge Analytica has tried to sell is magic. And it made claims that this is incredibly accurate and it tells you everything there is to tell about you, but the reality is that it’s not that. If you really work through the statistics … those claims quickly fall apart.” Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, who was suspended on Tuesday , told MPs in February that his company did not use Facebook data in its work. In a statement published on Saturday, the company denied any wrongdoing and said it did not harvest Facebook data, and none was used in the 2016 presidential election. It said it fully complied with Facebook’s terms of service and it had deleted all the data it received from Kogan’s company.  Cambridge Analytica  Facebook Privacy University of Cambridge Social networking news               Facebook CEO exploited ability to access data from any user’s friend network, US case claims  Zuckerberg set up fraudulent scheme to 'weaponise' data, court case alleges     Company gathered data from texts and photos of users and their friends, court case claims  Facebook accused of conducting mass surveillance through its apps     Dominic Cummings says move would prove campaign did not use data gathered improperly by Cambridge Analytica  Publish all Vote Leave's data, campaign chief challenges Facebook     Political consultancy, under fire over use of millions of Facebook users’ data, has begun insolvency proceedings  Cambridge Analytica closing after Facebook data harvesting scandal    The six weeks that brought Cambridge Analytica down   What does Cambridge Analytica closing mean for the Facebook data scandal?   We met Cambridge Analytica but didn't use them – Business Council of Australia   MPs threaten Mark Zuckerberg with summons over Facebook data    Most viewed    UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1050] Stock market ends slightly lower after Fed raises rates - MarketWatch       Begin Vidora Tag End Vidora Tag      Home Latest News Markets Personal Finance The Moneyist Retirement Investing FA Center Economy & Politics Real Estate Quotes Video SectorWatch Entertainment Premium Newsletters Profile Settings Email & Alerts Watchlist Games       Get email alerts  Stock market ends slightly lower after Fed raises rates   By  Anora M. Gaudiano  and  Sara Sjolin Published: Share      Fed statement ‘gradual enough for the bulls, but signals a more aggressive approach down the road’  Getty Images Jerome Powell presided over his first meeting as Federal Reserve chairman.  By   Anora M. Gaudiano Reporter    Sara Sjolin Markets reporter  U.S. stock-market indexes ended a turbulent session slightly lower on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve delivered its sixth interest-rate increase since the end of 2015 and signaled it still expects to deliver two more before the end of the year. The central bank also upped its forecast for the number of rate increases it expects to deliver in 2019. Stocks saw whipsaw price action, swinging between gains and losses following the policy announcement and during Powell’s news conference before ending the session in negative territory. Read: Powell press conference: live blog recap What are markets doing? The S&P; 500                                fell 5.01 points, or 0.2%, to 2,711, with eight of its 11 main sectors posting declines. Energy shares led the gains, rising 2.6%, as oil futures hit a seven-week high. Consumer-staples shares were the worst performers, down 1.3%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average                                which at its session high was up more than 250 points, ended down 44.96 points, or 0.2%, at 24,682.31. The Nasdaq Composite Index                                declined 19.02 points, or 0.3%, to 7,345.29. Small-cap stocks bucked the trend, ending higher. The Russell 2000 index                                rose 8.9 points, or 0.6%, to 1,579.30. Much of the gain for the Russell was due to a rally by banking stocks, which comprise 25% of the benchmark, according to FactSet. What is driving the markets? The central bank raised interest by a quarter of a percentage point, as widely expected. However, Powell played down policy makers’ view on future rates as seen on the so-called dot plots, which are anonymous forecasts from each FOMC member on the future path of the fed-funds rate. “The only thing that got a vote at the meeting was this rate hike. No one voted on the dot plot,” he said. The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury note               initially extended its rise, topping 2.93%, before paring the increase to trade near 2.883%—not far off its level ahead of the policy announcement. Yields and Treasury prices move in opposite directions. The ICE U.S. Dollar Index                                 weakened after the Fed decision, trading 0.8% lower at 89.710. What are strategists saying? “The Fed is forecasting two more hikes this year, but beyond that nobody knows what the economy will do, so their projections are meaningless,” said Joe Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading. Saluzzi also said extremely low volumes may have contributed to the choppy price action, possibly due to the spring snowstorm hitting the East Coast. “It’s very quiet, especially for a Fed and when volumes and liquidity are thin any sizable order can move markets as we are seeing today,” Saluzzi said. “Markets should like this statement that seems to have just enough for everyone: it’s gradual enough for the bulls, but signals a more aggressive approach down the road in 2019-2020,” said Ryan Larson, head of equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management. “A good percentage of Russell 2000 stocks are financials, which respond well to an environment with a steepening yield curve. As primarily domestic stocks, they respond well to strong domestic conditions,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott. What data are in focus? The current-account deficit for the fourth quarter rose by 26% in the fourth quarter , widening to $128.2 billion from a revised $101.5 billion in the third quarter. Existing-home sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 5.54 million in February. See: MarketWatch’s economic calendar Which stocks are in focus? Shares of General Mills Inc.               plunged 8.9% after earnings and an outlook that came in below expectations. Facebook               rebounded, rising 0.7%, but the stock remained down 8.5% for the week. The selloff for the social-media giant came after it was revealed that Cambridge Analytica, a firm hired to assist President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign, allegedly harvested private information of 50 million Facebook users without their permission. See: Why Facebook shares are ‘probably dead money’ for rest of 2018 WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton said late Tuesday it was now time to delete Facebook .  MuleSoft Inc.               rose 5.3% after Salesforce.com Inc.              said following Tuesday’s closing bell that it is buying the software company . Salesforce shares were down 2.7%. Southwest Airlines Co.               shares slumped by 4.8% after the company cut its outlook for first-quarter revenue per available seat mile to be in line with a year ago from previous guidance of a 1% to 2% increase. Home-building shares rallied after existing-home sales snapped a two-month losing streak. D.R. Horton Inc .                                rose 2.9%, while Lennar Corp .                                advanced 1.8%. Shares of Dow component Apple Inc.              fell 2.3%, leading blue-chip decliners. What are other markets doing? Asian stocks closed mixed , with Japan’s exchange                                 closed for a holiday. In Europe , most indexes closed in negative territory. Oil prices              climbed to trade at their highest levels in nearly seven weeks, after a surprise weekly decline in U.S. crude inventories. May West Texas Intermediate crude jumped 2.6% to settle at $65.17 a barrel. Gold prices                                  settled higher and rose in electronic trading . Gold finished at $1,321.50 an ounce, up $9.60, or 0.7%. Ryan Vlastelica contributed to this report More from MarketWatch This emerging-market ETF continues to blow away the competition Bloodbath for cryptocurrencies as Bitcoin sheds 10%, now down 40% year-to-date Home sellers now use spycams to gather intel on prospective buyers    We Want to   Hear from You Join the conversation Comment  Most Popular Here’s the list of 63 stores Sears is closing in the ‘near future,’ and there are more coming Trump’s jobs report tweet in advance of release appears to have violated federal rules California’s emigrants aren’t all moving to cheaper housing markets Why you’re being flooded with calls in your area code—and how to stop them John Grisham: 'Day of reckoning' coming for student debt  Community Guidelines FAQs   BACK TO TOP MarketWatch Site Index Topics Help Feedback Newsroom Roster Media Archive Premium Products Mobile Company Company Info Code of Conduct Corrections Advertising Media Kit Advertise Locally Reprints & Licensing Your Ad Choices   Dow Jones Network WSJ.com Barron's Online BigCharts Virtual Stock Exchange Financial News London WSJ.com Small Business realtor.com Mansion Global  Copyright © 2018 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service ,  Privacy Policy , and  Cookie Policy .    Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only. Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements. This is a placeholder for cxense widgets  Advanced Search  Stocks Columns Authors Topics  No results found     data-module-name=""mw.svc.page.Partials"" Begin Proximic Tag End Proximic Tag Begin Tealium Tag End Tealium Tag Begin Dianomi Tag End Dianomi Tag "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1051]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - The Cambridge Analytica saga is a scandal of Facebook’s own making | John Harris | Opinion | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons More      The Cambridge Analytica saga is a scandal of Facebook’s own making  Contact author @johnharris1969 Wed 21 Mar 2018 Last modified on Sat 24 Mar 2018         Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at the F8 summit in San Francisco, California. Photograph: Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images ig corporate scandals tend not to come completely out of the blue. As with politicians, accident-prone companies rarely become that way by accident, and a spectacular crisis can often arrive at the end of a long spell of bad decisions and confidence curdling into hubris. So it is with the tale of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica , and a saga that vividly highlights the awful mess that the biggest player in billions of online lives has turned into. Cambridge Analytica may be guilty of hype. But data mining poisons our politics | Gaby Hinsliff Read more Four days after a story pursued for over a year by my brilliant Observer colleague Carole Cadwalladr burst open, its plot now feels very familiar: in early 2014, 270,000 people did an online “personality test” that appears to have resulted in information about 50 million of their Facebook friends being passed to the nasty and amoral men featured in Channel 4’s secret filming , which would be in contravention of Facebook’s rules about data being used by third parties for commercial purposes. In the second act, Facebook failed to alert users and took only limited steps to recover and secure the data in question. On Tuesday, as Facebook’s value continued to slide, the plot thickened, with the re-appearance of a whistleblower named Sandy Parakilas, who claimed that hundreds of millions more people were likely to have had similar information harvested by outside companies, and that while he was working for the company between 2011 and 2012, Facebook’s systems for monitoring how such information was used often seemed to barely exist. This video has been removed. This could be because it launched early, our rights have expired, there was a legal issue, or for another reason. Cambridge Analytica caught in undercover sting boasting about entrapping politicians - video Even if Facebook has since changed its rules to stop third-party apps gaining access to data from people’s friends, all this still goes back to something that remains absolutely fundamental to the company. A lot of its users know, and yet constantly choose to forget: beneath all the bromides about “ bringing the world closer together ” gushed out by its founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and the joy of posting your holiday pictures, Facebook’s employees tirelessly work to amass as much data as they can about users and their online friends and make vast amounts of money by facilitating micro-targeting by advertisers. (This has had nasty aspects beyond political messaging: it was only last year, for example, that Facebook decisively stopped housing advertisers excluding certain ethnic groups, and disabled people). If you use its services as their creators intend and cough out the small details of your life on a daily – or even hourly – basis, Facebook will know all about your family, friends, education, politics, travel habits, taste in clothes, connected devices, and scores of things besides. Its eyes can extend just about everywhere online: to quote from its privacy policy , “We receive data whenever you visit a game, application, or website that uses Facebook Platform or visit a site with a Facebook feature … sometimes through cookies.” And though third-party apps can be restricted from scooping up personal information, we all know what tends to deliver their makers what they want: the fact that most people have no idea how to restrict access to their data, and are subtly enticed to ignore such things. All this stuff defines Facebook’s raison d’etre. Indeed, hinting at its drive for omniscience, Zuckerberg once habitually talked about what Facebook insiders called radical transparency , an idea that partly amounted to an insistence that old ideas about privacy were becoming outmoded. Facebook was leading the way, and this was nothing but a good thing. “To get people to the point where there’s more openness – that’s a big challenge,” Zuckerberg said. “But I think we’ll do it. I just think it will take time. The concept that the world will be better if you share more is something that’s pretty foreign to a lot of people, and it runs into all these privacy concerns.” (You could write a doctoral thesis about those words: the professed belief in improving the lot of humanity sounding distinctly like window-dressing for the company’s pursuit of endlessly increasing revenues; the seeming impatience summed up in the words “all these privacy concerns”.) In retrospect, talking like that, and encouraging your people to think of a lot of worries about personal confidentiality as increasingly the stuff of the past, was always going to invite disaster. At times, Mark Zuckerberg looks like someone who cannot keep up even with himself Facebook’s latest bout of anxiety and what some people call “reputational damage” now dates back at least 18 months. By the end of the US presidential election campaign, its algorithms had ensured that the top fake stories in people’s news feeds were generating more engagement than the most popular real ones. Zuckerberg initially described the claim that Facebook had been instrumental in the victory of Donald Trump as a “pretty crazy idea”, only to recant . Having been scared by Twitter and enthusiastically pushing the idea that Facebook could be a news platform, he then ran in the opposite direction , insisting that its job was to allow people to share “personal moments”. At times, he looks like someone who cannot keep up even with himself. Facebook sometimes behaves like a government – sending in “auditors” to examine material at the London offices of Cambridge Analytica while the UK information commissioner’s investigators waited for legal permission to do the same thing, and reportedly demanding access to the whistleblower Christopher Wylie’s phone and computer. But at the same time, its bosses defy the most basic expectations of corporate governance. Like Facebook’s COO Sheryl Sandberg, Zuckerberg is still nowhere to be seen : a statement issued on Tuesday said he and Sandberg were “working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward”, and that “the entire company is outraged we were deceived”, which is most of the way to being laughable. Were it not for his $70bn fortune, he would arguably inspire pity, rather than anger: it looks like he is in way over his head. Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer Even if the majority of Facebook users still seem content to give it the data it constantly devours, over the past two or three years, a rising chorus of voices has demanded that governments and legislators bring the company to heel. The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation represents a step in the right direction; as does the fact that the Cambridge Analytica scandal is being looked into by the US federal trade commission. The work being done by the Tory MP Damian Collins as the chair of the digital, culture, media and sport select committee is great to see. But even at their most potent, these efforts do not get near questions centred on Facebook’s sheer size, and the possibility of anti-monopoly action that would have to originate on the company’s home turf. In the US, anti-trust actions only succeed if a supposedly monopolistic company can be found to have affected consumers’ wellbeing in terms of the quality of products and services they can access, the levels of innovation in a given economic sector, and in particular, the prices people have to pay. The fact that Facebook would probably slip free of such criteria surely suggests that the rules are unfit for the online age, and that a different set of considerations ought be introduced, perhaps built around the power a company wields, relative to its collective competence. In those terms, Zuckerberg and his colleagues are guilty of an epic fail, and everything that now happens to them should follow from it. John Harris is a Guardian columnist Facebook Opinion  Cambridge Analytica Social networking Privacy Mark Zuckerberg Data protection comment            View all comments >  Order by newest oldest recommendations Show 25 50 100 All Threads collapsed expanded unthreaded Loading comments… Trouble loading? View more comments   Most viewed    The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1052] Facebook data scandals in U.S. and U.K. have Manitoba politicians pondering elections technology | CBC News   Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Manitoba news Facebook data scandals in U.S. and U.K. have Manitoba politicians pondering elections technology Manitoba's three largest political parties say they don't employ social media analytics tools the Liberals describe as a worsening an electoral ""arms race"" and the NDP says may be subject to greater government regulation. 3 largest Man. parties say they didn't use social media analytics in 2016; mayor's office mum on 2014 race CBC News Posted: Mar 21, 2018 5:00 AM CT | Last Updated: March 22 Bartley Kives Reporter, CBC Manitoba Before joining CBC Manitoba, Bartley Kives spent most of his career in journalism at the Winnipeg Free Press, covering politics, music, food, the environment and outdoor recreation. He's the author of the Canadian bestseller A Daytripper's Guide to Manitoba: Exploring Canada's Undiscovered Province and co-author of Stuck in the Middle: Dissenting Views of Winnipeg. His work has also appeared in publications such as the Guardian and Explore magazine. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO pending probe in Facebook data scandal Who is Christopher Wylie? How a B.C. high school dropout set out on path to political data harvesting Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak Facebook suspends data analytics firm that worked for Trump campaign Find more popular stories More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1053] How to protect your personal info on Facebook | CBC News   Skip to Main Content Menu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch Close Menu CBC.ca HOME Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Junos Indspire Awards CBC Archives All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North Ottawa Change British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows Technology & Science news How to protect your personal info on Facebook Facebook users who are worried about protecting their personal information in the wake of the alleged privacy breach by Cambridge Analytica have a few options at their disposal. Options include tweaking account settings, deleting mobile app or getting off Facebook altogether CBC News Posted: Mar 21, 2018 5:43 PM ET | Last Updated: March 21 With files from Reuters and CBC's Matthew Braga CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak Facebook, Cambridge Analytica sued in U.S. by users over data harvesting British PM backs investigation into Cambridge Analytica's Facebook data use Canadian whistleblower on why he exposed 'problematic' Facebook data misuse by Trump consulting firm How one researcher harvested data from 50 million people — and Facebook was designed to help Facebook whistleblower pushed data-mining boundaries in Canada: source Find more popular stories More stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Policy CBC Shop FAQ Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Ombudsman Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch . More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback 2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1055] –– 0000000  000 0000000 111111111 11111111100 000 111111111 00000 111111111111111111 00000 000000 000 1111111111111111111111111100000 000 000 1111 1111111111111111100 000 000 11 0 1111111100 000 000 1 00 1 000 000 00 00 1 000 000 000 00000 1 000 00000 0000 00000000 1 00000 11111 000 00 000000 000  11111 00000 0000 000000 00000 00000 000 10000 000000 000 0000 000 00000 000000 1 000 000 000000 10000 1 0 000 000 1000000 00 1 00 000 000 1111111 1 0000 000 000 1111111100 000000 000 0000 111111111111111110000000 0000 111111111 111111111111100000 111111111 0000000 00000000 0000000 NYTimes.com: All the code that's fit to printf() We're hiring: https://nytimes.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/Tech --  Zuckerberg, Facing Facebook’s Worst Crisis Yet, Pledges Better Privacy - The New York Times  Skip to content Skip to site index Technology Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by By and March 21, 2018 SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, on Wednesday publicly addressed for the first time the misuse of data belonging to 50 million users of the social network and described the steps the company would take to safeguard the information of its more than two billion monthly users. Although his statement addressing a chorus of criticism fell short of a full-throated apology, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would contact users whose data had been harvested through a personality quiz app and passed along to the political data firm Cambridge Analytica. “We have a responsibility to protect your data,” Mr. Zuckerberg said Wednesday in a Facebook post , “and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.” Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, was trying to quell the crisis over the disclosure last weekend that Cambridge Analytica had used data that had been improperly obtained from Facebook as the firm worked on behalf of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign. “Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there?” Mr. Zuckerberg said later in an interview with The New York Times. He added, “Were there apps which could have gotten access to more information and potentially sold it without us knowing or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control.” Mr. Zuckerberg said the company would investigate apps like the third-party quiz app that had previously obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access. “We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in his Facebook statement. The Cambridge Analytica revelations added to the questions that have been raised about Facebook’s handling of user data and security. Those questions have only intensified as the company has faced criticism over the role its platform played in Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election and the way it has been used to spread misinformation on the internet. The resulting backlash is Facebook’s worst crisis since it was founded by Mr. Zuckerberg and others in 2004. The information, photos and other content that users post and their frequent engagement with the platform is crucial to the social network, and to the company’s profitability. Questions about user privacy and security threaten the company’s standing at a time when people are already uneasy about whether the use of technology can bring good or ill. Last Friday, after The New York Times, The Observer of London and Channel 4 in Britain told Facebook that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it had obtained, the social network banned the political consulting firm and Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University researcher who created the personality quiz app that was used to harvest user data. “This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote on Wednesday. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it.” Facebook representatives confirmed that Cambridge Analytica representatives met with Facebook on Tuesday to discuss lifting the ban. Mr. Zuckerberg told The Times he did not rule out allowing Cambridge Analytica back, saying Facebook must first conduct a “full forensic audit of the firm” and “have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here.” The reaction to the Cambridge Analytica disclosure has been severe. Politicians in the United States and Britain have called for Mr. Zuckerberg to explain how his company handles user data, and state attorneys general in Massachusetts and New York have begun investigating Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. A #DeleteFacebook movement calling on people to close their accounts has also gathered steam. In Washington, there have been more calls for regulation of internet companies like Facebook. Mr. Zuckerberg’s troubles there were illustrated by the final passage on Wednesday of a bill to combat sex trafficking . The bill would lift liability protections that internet companies have enjoyed for content that users post on their platforms. Facebook and other internet giants had quietly fought the bill for more than a year, but eventually dropped their opposition. Lawmakers who have demanded that Mr. Zuckerberg testify before Congress about Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica were not appeased by his statement. “You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath,” Senator Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, tweeted in response to Mr. Zuckerberg’s post. Independent researchers who have used data from Facebook said that Mr. Zuckerberg’s statement did not acknowledge how the gathering of user data was fundamental to the company’s operations. “He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” said Jonathan Albright, research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University. “There is no question that handing out that data made Facebook the success it is as a company. This has to be recognized as part of their business model and not just a one-off problem.” In his statement, Mr. Zuckerberg laid out a timeline of Facebook’s dealings with Cambridge Analytica. He traced the information-sharing issue to 2007, when Facebook decided to become an open platform — enabling people to use Facebook to log into other apps and share detailed personal information about themselves and their friends. In 2013, Mr. Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, created a personality quiz app that about 300,000 people installed, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Because Facebook was an open platform, Mr. Kogan was able to collect data on tens of millions of friends of those users who had installed the personality quiz app. A year later, Mr. Zuckerberg said, Facebook changed its policy to limit how much data third-party apps could access. “These actions would prevent any app like Kogan’s from being able to access so much data today,” he wrote. By 2015, Mr. Kogan had shared his data and findings with Cambridge Analytica, which later used the material to single out American voters. Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook had banned Mr. Kogan’s app and demanded that the researcher and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that the data had been deleted. He did not address in his post why Facebook had not already disclosed those activities to its users whose data had been harvested by Mr. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica. “Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in the interview. For Mr. Zuckerberg, the outcry over Cambridge Analytica has been personally damaging. Inside Facebook, even his staunch supporters have described a tense atmosphere. Some employees have sought to transfer to other divisions, such as the messaging app WhatsApp and the photo-sharing platform Instagram, calling their work on Facebook’s main product “demoralizing.” Mr. Zuckerberg spent part of the past week hunkered down with a small group of engineers to discuss how to make information on Facebook’s users more secure, and to potentially give them more control of their data, according to two Facebook employees who declined to be named because the proceedings were confidential. His silence on the matter has prompted mounting criticism in the past few days. Facebook held a staff meeting on Tuesday to answer questions about Cambridge Analytica and the surrounding outcry, but Mr. Zuckerberg did not appear at the event. He was scheduled to appear at a staff meeting that was set for Friday. In his interview with The Times, Mr. Zuckerberg said that the company’s efforts to safeguard its platform from bad behavior — which includes preparing for possible interference attempts in the 2018 midterm elections — were an important part of a larger transformation at the company, which has had to adjust from its roots as a social network for college students into a powerful global information hub. “If you had asked me, when I got started with Facebook, if one of the central things I’d need to work on now is preventing governments from interfering in each other’s elections, there’s no way I thought that’s what I’d be doing if we talked in 2004 in my dorm room,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. Follow Sheera Frenkel and Kevin Roose on Twitter: @sheeraf and @kevinroose Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco and Kevin Roose from New York. David Gelles contributed reporting from New York. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook’s Chief Admits Mistakes In Guarding Data Related Coverage Mark Zuckerberg’s Reckoning: ‘This Is a Major Trust Issue’ March 21, 2018 Missing From Facebook’s Crisis: Mark Zuckerberg March 21, 2018 Opinion Facebook’s Surveillance Machine March 19, 2018 Show All Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation ©  Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1056] Fly Version: 1 Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg: ""One of the biggest mistakes"" is not digging deeper into Cambridge Analytica - CBS News >  endif]  viewBox=""0 0 50 50"" TODO: we need to bring all icons to the same viewBox removed in CBSNRVLR-8517 to resolve amp errors "	"<animateTransform attributeType=""xml"" attributeName=""transform"" type=""rotate"" from=""0 25 25"" to=""360 25 25"" dur=""1s"" repeatCount=""indefinite""/> [if lt IE 9 "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																					
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1057] –– 0000000  000 0000000 111111111 11111111100 000 111111111 00000 111111111111111111 00000 000000 000 1111111111111111111111111100000 000 000 1111 1111111111111111100 000 000 11 0 1111111100 000 000 1 00 1 000 000 00 00 1 000 000 000 00000 1 000 00000 0000 00000000 1 00000 11111 000 00 000000 000  11111 00000 0000 000000 00000 00000 000 10000 000000 000 0000 000 00000 000000 1 000 000 000000 10000 1 0 000 000 1000000 00 1 00 000 000 1111111 1 0000 000 000 1111111100 000000 000 0000 111111111111111110000000 0000 111111111 111111111111100000 111111111 0000000 00000000 0000000 NYTimes.com: All the code that's fit to printf() We're hiring: https://nytimes.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/Tech --  Mark Zuckerberg’s Reckoning: ‘This Is a Major Trust Issue’ - The New York Times  Skip to content Skip to site index Technology Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by By and March 21, 2018 Leer en español For much of the past week, Facebook has been embroiled in a controversy involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm with ties to Donald J. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, and how the firm improperly obtained and exploited personal data from 50 million Facebook users. On Wednesday, following widespread questions about his whereabouts , Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, spoke with two New York Times reporters, Sheera Frenkel and Kevin Roose, about the controversy and the steps he was taking to make the social network less prone to abuse. Below is a transcript of the conversation, edited for length and clarity. Sheera Frenkel : Did it come as a surprise to you, the user response to the news that Cambridge Analytica had accessed this trove of data ? Mark Zuckerberg : Privacy issues have always been incredibly important to people. One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data. If you think about what our services are, at their most basic level, you put some content into a service, whether it’s a photo or a video or a text message — whether it’s Facebook or WhatsApp or Instagram — and you’re trusting that that content is going to be shared with the people you want to share it with. Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar. Frenkel : It took quite a few days for your response to come out. Is that because you were weighing these three action points that you noted in your post ? Zuckerberg : The first thing is, I really wanted to make sure we had a full and accurate understanding of everything that happened. I know that there was a lot of pressure to speak sooner, but my assessment was that it was more important that what we said was fully accurate. The second thing is, the most important thing is that we fix this system so that issues like this don’t happen again. It’s not like there aren’t going to be other different kind of things we’ll also have to fix. But when there’s a certain problem, we have a responsibility to at least make sure we resolve that problem. So the actions here that we’re going to do involve first, dramatically reducing the amount of data that developers have access to, so that apps and developers can’t do what Kogan did here. The most important actions there we actually took three or four years ago, in 2014. But when we examined the systems this week, there were certainly other things we felt we should lock down, too. So we’re going ahead and doing that. Even if you solve the problem going forward, there’s still this issue of: Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there, or other Kogans who, when the platform worked a certain way in the past, were there apps which could have gotten access to more information, and potentially sold it without us knowing, or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control. That’s why we spent a lot of time figuring out, O.K. here’s what it’s going to take to do a full investigation of every app that got access to a large amount of information before we changed the platform policies to dramatically reduce the data access that developers had. For any app that we uncover that has any suspicious activity, we’re going to go do a full forensic audit, and make sure we have the capacity to do that, to make sure that other developers aren’t doing what Kogan did here. The third thing is, it’s really important that people know what apps they’ve authorized. A lot of people have been on Facebook now for five or 10 years, and sometimes you signed into an app a long time ago and you may have forgotten about that. So one of the steps we’re taking is making it so apps can no longer access data after you haven’t used them for three months. But it’s also just really important to put in front of people a tool of, here are all the apps you’ve connected to and authorized, here’s an easy way to deauthorize them, to revoke their permission to get access to your activity. Kevin Roose : Is Facebook planning to notify the 50 million users whose data was shared with Cambridge Analytica? Zuckerberg : Yes. We’re going to tell anyone whose data may have been shared. Now, there’s a question of whether we have the exact record in our systems today of who your friends were on that day when there was access three and a half or four years ago, so we’re going to be conservative on that and try to tell anyone whose data may have been affected, even if we don’t know for certain that they were. It’s likely that we’ll build a tool like we did with the Russian misinformation investigation, that anyone can go to it and see if their data was affected by this. Roose : Do you have a preliminary estimate of how many apps you’ll be investigating? Zuckerberg : It will be in the thousands. Frenkel : Were those app developers notified that you’ll be investigating this yet? Zuckerberg : Just when I posted. And we’ll be reaching out in the near term. Frenkel : Are you going to be hiring people to help conduct those investigations? Zuckerberg : Yes, I would imagine we’re going to have to grow the team to work on this. Roose : You mentioned a contract that developers will have to sign in order to ask anyone for access to broader profile information. What will be the terms of that contract, and what will be the penalties for violating it? Zuckerberg : So, the important thing there is that it’s a high-touch process. The specific point we were trying to make is that it’s not going to be some terms of service that a developer can sign up for just on their computer when developing something. I guess technically, that would be a contract as well. The point of what we’re trying to do here is to create a situation where we have a real person-to-person relationship with any developer who is asking for the most sensitive data. That doesn’t mean that — if you’re a developer and you want to put Facebook Login on your website, you can do that. If you want to get access to ask people for their religious affiliation, or their sexual orientation, for data that could be very sensitive, we want to make sure we have a clear relationship with those people. Frenkel : We understood that Cambridge Analytica had reached out to Facebook and asked that its ban on the platform be reconsidered. Are you giving any thought to allowing Cambridge Analytica back in? Zuckerberg : The first thing we need to do is conduct this full forensic audit of the firm, that they don’t have any people’s data from our community and that they’ve deleted anything, including derivative data, that they might have. We’re working with the regulator in the U.K. on this, so our forensic audit was actually paused in the near term to cede the way for the ICO there to do their own government investigation. We’re certainly not going to consider letting them back onto the platform until we have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here. Roose : There were reports as far back as 2015 that Cambridge Analytica had access to this data set. Why didn’t you suspend them then? Zuckerberg : So, we actually heard, I think it was at the end of 2015 — some journalists from The Guardian reached out to us and told us what you just said. And it was not just about Cambridge Analytica, it was about this developer, Aleksandr Kogan, who had shared data with them. We took action immediately at that point. We banned Kogan’s app from the platform, we demanded that Kogan and Cambridge Analytica and a couple other parties that Kogan had shared the data with would legally certify that they didn’t have the data, and weren’t using it in any of their operations. They gave us that formal certification. At the time, they told us they never had gotten access to raw Facebook data, so we made that decision. Frenkel : In retrospect, do you wish you had demanded proof that the data had been deleted? Zuckerberg : Yes. They gave us a formal and legal certification, and it seems at this point that that was false. Again, we haven’t done our full investigation and audit yet so I can’t say definitively that they actually have data. I’ve just read all the same reports that you have, including in The New York Times, that says that journalists have seen evidence that they have the data, which is a strong enough signal for us to go on, and take action here. That’s the basic driver behind us now needing to go and do a full investigation into any app that had access to a large amount of data before we locked down the platform policies in 2014. Just having folks tell us that they were using the data correctly, I think, does not satisfy our responsibility to our community to protect their data. Frenkel : Are you actively looking at some of these dark web data brokers that have been in news reports recently, that say that other independent researchers are potentially trading in this data? Zuckerberg : Yes, we’re investigating that too. Roose : Are you worried about the #DeleteFacebook campaign that’s been going around? Have you seen meaningful numbers of people deleting their accounts, and are you worried that will be a trend? Zuckerberg : I don’t think we’ve seen a meaningful number of people act on that, but, you know, it’s not good. I think it’s a clear signal that this is a major trust issue for people, and I understand that. And whether people delete their app over it or just don’t feel good about using Facebook, that’s a big issue that I think we have a responsibility to rectify. Frenkel : We’re now heading into the 2018 midterms. Could you speak about what Facebook is going to do ahead of the 2018 midterms to make people feel more confident that the platform won’t be used this way again? Zuckerberg : This is an incredibly important point. There’s no doubt that in 2016, there were a number of issues including foreign interference and false news that we did not have as much of a handle on as we feel a responsibility to for our community. Now, the good news here is that these problems aren’t necessarily rocket science. They’re hard, but they’re things that if you invest and work on making it harder for adversaries to do what they’re trying to do, you can really reduce the amount of false news, make it harder for foreign governments to interfere. One of the things that gives me confidence is that we’ve seen a number of elections at this point where this has gone a lot better. In the months after the 2016 election, there was the French election. The new A.I. tools we built after the 2016 elections found, I think, more than 30,000 fake accounts that we believe were linked to Russian sources who were trying to do the same kind of tactics they did in the U.S. in the 2016 election. We were able to disable them and prevent that from happening on a large scale in France. In last year, in 2017 with the special election in Alabama, we deployed some new A.I. tools to identify fake accounts and false news, and we found a significant number of Macedonian accounts that were trying to spread false news, and were able to eliminate those. And that, actually, is something I haven’t talked about publicly before, so you’re the first people I’m telling about that. I feel a lot better about the systems now. At the same time, I think Russia and other governments are going to get more sophisticated in what they do, too. So we need to make sure that we up our game. This is a massive focus for us to make sure we’re dialed in for not only the 2018 elections in the U.S., but the Indian elections, the Brazilian elections, and a number of other elections that are going on this year that are really important. Frenkel : The Times reported that [Facebook chief security officer Alex] Stamos will be leaving toward the end of this year. Is there a broader plan for how Facebook is going to structure security on its platform ahead of all these important elections? Zuckerberg : Sure. One of the important things we’ve done is, we want to unify all of our security efforts. And you reported on a reorg around Alex Stamos, and I’ll say something about him in a second. He’s been a very valuable contributor here and was a really central figure in helping us identify the foreign interference with Russia. And I think he has done very good work, and I’m hopeful he’ll be engaged for a while here on that. One of the big things we needed to do is coordinate our efforts a lot better across the whole company. It’s not all A.I., right? There’s certainly a lot that A.I. can do, we can train classifiers to identify content, but most of what we do is identify things that people should look at. So we’re going to double the amount of people working on security this year. We’ll have more than 20,000 people working on security and community operations by the end of the year, I think we have about 15,000 now. So it’s really the technical systems we have working with the people in our operations functions that make the biggest deal. The last thing I’d add on this. Take things like false news. You know, a lot of it is really spam, if you think about it. It’s the same people who might have been sending you Viagra emails in the ’90s, now they’re trying to come up with sensational content and push it into Facebook and other apps in order to get you to click on it and see ads. There are some pretty basic policy decisions we’ve made, like O.K., if you’re anywhere close to being a fake news site, you can’t put Facebook ads on your site, right? So then suddenly, it becomes harder for them to make money. If you make it hard enough for them to make money, they just kind of go and do something else. Roose : Is the basic economic model of Facebook, in which users provide data that Facebook uses to help advertisers and developers to better target potential customers and users — do you feel like that works, given what we now know about the risks? Zuckerberg : Yeah, so this is a really important question. The thing about the ad model that is really important that aligns with our mission is that — our mission is to build a community for everyone in the world and to bring the world closer together. And a really important part of that is making a service that people can afford. A lot of the people, once you get past the first billion people, can’t afford to pay a lot. Therefore, having it be free and have a business model that is ad-supported ends up being really important and aligned. Now, over time, might there be ways for people who can afford it to pay a different way? That’s certainly something we’ve thought about over time. But I don’t think the ad model is going to go away, because I think fundamentally, it’s important to have a service like this that everyone in the world can use, and the only way to do that is to have it be very cheap or free. Roose : Adam Mosseri, Facebook’s head of News Feed, recently said he had lost some sleep over Facebook’s role in the violence in Myanmar. You’ve said you’re “ outraged ” about what happened with Cambridge Analytica, but when you think about the many things that are happening with Facebook all over the world, are you losing any sleep? Do you feel any guilt about the role Facebook is playing in the world? Zuckerberg : That’s a good question. I think, you know, we’re doing something here which is unprecedented, in terms of building a community for people all over the world to be able to share what matters to them, and connect across boundaries. I think what we’re seeing is, there are new challenges that I don’t think anyone had anticipated before. If you had asked me, when I got started with Facebook, if one of the central things I’d need to work on now is preventing governments from interfering in each other’s elections, there’s no way I thought that’s what I’d be doing, if we talked in 2004 in my dorm room. I don’t know that it’s possible to know every issue that you’re going to face down the road. But we have a real responsibility to take all these issues seriously as they come up, and work with experts and people around the world to make sure we solve them, and do a good job for our community. It’s certainly true that, over the course of Facebook, I’ve made all kinds of different mistakes, whether that’s technical mistakes or business mistakes or hiring mistakes. We’ve launched product after product that didn’t work. I spend most of my time looking forward, trying to figure out how to solve the issues that people are having today, because I think that’s what people in our community would want. Follow Kevin Roose and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @kevinroose and @sheeraf A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Zuckerberg Reiterates Obligation To Privacy Related Coverage Zuckerberg, Facing Facebook’s Worst Crisis Yet, Pledges Better Privacy March 21, 2018 Want to #DeleteFacebook? You Can Try March 21, 2018 Welcome to Zucktown. Where Everything Is Just Zucky. March 21, 2018 Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation ©  Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1058]   > < class=""no-js lt-ie9 lt-ie8 lt-ie7"" lang=""en"" prefix=""og:http://ogp.me/ns# fb:http://www.facebook.com/2008/fbml irishtimes:http://www.irishtimes.com/"" version=""HTML+RDFa 1.1""> endif]    Google Tag Manager End Google Tag Manager Google Optimize Page hiding snippet End Google Optimize Page hiding snippet  Are tech companies threatening freedom of thought and democracy? Google Tag Manager (noscript) End Google Tag Manager (noscript)     <i class=""s-icon s-icon-signed-in""></i>  Subscribe   Masthead area  Sat, Jun 2, 2018     Top level menu News Sport Business Opinion Life & Style Culture More Video Podcasts Executive Jobs  Subscribe  Sign In   Opinion Editorials Letters Columnists An Irishman's Diary Opinion & Analysis Martyn Turner  Cookie Policy notice [if lte IE 8  The website has been optimised for modern web browsers; for the best experience, please X "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1059] –– 0000000  000 0000000 111111111 11111111100 000 111111111 00000 111111111111111111 00000 000000 000 1111111111111111111111111100000 000 000 1111 1111111111111111100 000 000 11 0 1111111100 000 000 1 00 1 000 000 00 00 1 000 000 000 00000 1 000 00000 0000 00000000 1 00000 11111 000 00 000000 000  11111 00000 0000 000000 00000 00000 000 10000 000000 000 0000 000 00000 000000 1 000 000 000000 10000 1 0 000 000 1000000 00 1 00 000 000 1111111 1 0000 000 000 1111111100 000000 000 0000 111111111111111110000000 0000 111111111 111111111111100000 111111111 0000000 00000000 0000000 NYTimes.com: All the code that's fit to printf() We're hiring: https://nytimes.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/Tech --  For Many Facebook Users, a ‘Last Straw’ That Led Them to Quit - The New York Times  Skip to content Skip to site index Technology Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Supported by By March 21, 2018 Debates over privacy have plagued Facebook for years. But the news that Cambridge Analytica , a political data firm that worked on President Trump’s 2016 campaign, was able to gain access to private data through the social network has sparked an unusually strong reaction among its users. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook appeared more than 10,000 times on Twitter within a two-hour period on Wednesday, according to the analytics service ExportTweet. On Tuesday, it was mentioned 40,398 times, according to the analytics service Digimind. Cher was one such deserter, writing on Twitter that the decision to quit Facebook, although “very hard,” was necessary because she loves the United States . 2day I did something VERY HARD 4 me.Facebook has helped me with my Charity, &there; are amazing young Ppl there.I have a special friend (Lauren)who I Respect & Admire,but today I deleted my Facebook account . I Love My. I Believe....There are Things MORE”IMPORTANT”THAN — Cher (@cher) March 21, 2018 Brian Acton, a co-founder of the WhatsApp messaging service, told his tens of thousands of followers on Tuesday to delete Facebook. The social network acquired WhatsApp in a $19 billion deal in 2014. For people who aren’t celebrities or billionaires, the decision to abandon Facebook came reluctantly, because the platform often served as their sole connection to certain relatives, friends and professional opportunities. Here, some newly Facebook-free users of social media discuss why they left. ______ Richard H. Perry A filmmaker in Los Angeles For a long time now, Mr. Perry had wanted to leave Facebook. He never felt comfortable knowing that the company had access to much of his personal information . In the months before the 2016 presidential election, he watched the social network become what he called “a garbage platform of ads and weird reposted articles and people that you care about exposing themselves as racists.” But Facebook was also where Mr. Perry promoted his films, where he posted ads seeking help on the set, and where he communicated with colleagues and a “massive number” of his friends and relatives. Until he heard about Cambridge Analytica. “I suspected this stuff was going on, but this is the first time it’s been plainly exposed,” he said. “It seems so malicious, and Facebook seems so complicit all the way up and down, like it doesn’t care about its users.” Mr. Perry, 39, has since deleted his profile and plans to switch to Twitter and Instagram for his social media needs. “It was an easy decision,” he said. “It’s not going to be the end of the world.” ______ Dan Clark A retired Navy veteran in Maine Mr. Clark kept one Facebook account to chat with friends and a separate account to keep tabs on members of his family nationwide. This week, he deleted both. “Facebook was the main platform I used to keep in touch with all of them, and it was a difficult decision to give it up,” he said. “But you have to stand for something, so I just put my foot down and said enough is enough.” Mr. Clark, 57, said he had already been angry with Facebook for censoring some of his posts , which he said expressed his staunchly conservative views but were “never evil or putting anybody down.” He could not abide the idea that his personal information was also being sold or given away without his consent. Before cutting the cord, Mr. Clark posted on Facebook inviting his contacts to ask him for his personal phone number. More than 100 people reached out within three days. “There are just so many ways nowadays to stay in contact: phones, email, instant message, Gab, which is a social network that doesn’t censor anything ,” he said. “Facebook is more obsolete than people would think.” ______ Alexandra Kleeman A writer on Staten Island Her first experience with fake news — a Facebook post claiming that Pope Francis had endorsed Mr. Trump’s candidacy — altered the way Ms. Kleeman looked at Facebook. “It changed the psychological and emotional feel of the platform for me,” she said. “I don’t have a great feeling when I log in.” The Cambridge Analytica scandal led her to remove the Facebook app from her phone. “I’m not going to give them my engagement clicks,” Ms. Kleeman, 32, said. But she is keeping the messaging function open for professional purposes and will continue using Instagram. She doesn’t mind the idea that some personal data can be made public — she used to have a blog, she said. “But the idea that my data could be used for purposes that I expressly don’t want , that freaks me out.” ______ Paul Musgrave An assistant professor in Amherst, Mass. Twitter makes Mr. Musgrave feel depressed about the world, but Facebook is the social media platform he is trying to abandon. As a political science teacher at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Mr. Musgrave, 36, feels a professional responsibility to keep abreast of the news and academic chatter hurtling at him in the form of tweets. Facebook was more valuable to him as a “low-key, offstage networking tool,” a “replacement for end-of-year family newsletters” that allowed him to “passively keep up with people,” he said. He joined the platform more than a decade ago and before that had been a member of Friendster, a precursor to Facebook. But in 2016, while helping his mother during her campaign for a government position in Indiana, Mr. Musgrave discovered a “poisonous swamp” of content on the site. The Cambridge Analytica findings were even more disturbing, he said. ""This is a company that has Orwellian levels of data about us, truly Big Brother-level, but it’s behaving as if it has no social responsibility and is a purely neutral medium of communication,” he said. ""That’s what’s really been scary.” Having deactivated his Facebook account, with plans to delete it, he now worries about connecting with people who use the social network as their main conduit of communication. “I’m definitely pruning myself away from some of those really important branches,” he said. “I watch my own students try to navigate the world of apps and smartphones, and even they don’t really know how the internet works outside these enclosed garden spaces.” ______ Ben Greenzweig An entrepreneur in Westchester, N.Y. Once Mr. Greenzweig confirms that the 1,195 photos and 85 videos in his Facebook profile have downloaded, he plans to delete the account he has maintained for nearly a decade. Mr. Greenzweig, 40, said the Cambridge Analytica news was “the last straw.” “We have surpassed the tipping point, where the benefit now fails to outweigh the cost,” he said. “But I will definitely miss what the promise of Facebook used to be — a way to connect to community in a very global and local context.” A year ago, Mr. Greenzweig was an “extraordinarily active” Facebook user who juggled conversations with friends, managed several groups, took out ads for his business and maintained professional contacts. But on Tuesday night, in his final post, he asked his network to connect with him through email, LinkedIn, Twitter or phone. “See everyone in the real world,” he wrote. Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu . Talya Minsberg contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Desertions In Wake Of Missteps By Facebook Related Coverage video Why Leaving Facebook Doesn’t Always Mean Quitting March 21, 2018 Facebook Made Him a Billionaire. Now He’s a Critic. March 21, 2018 How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of Millions March 17, 2018 Show All Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation ©  Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS  "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1060]   Zuckerberg roasted online for unapologetic update on Facebook’s ‘breach of trust’ — RT US News     facebook twitter youtube google-plus instagram vkontakte telegram snapchat Applications RSS العربية ESP РУС DE FR ИНОТВ RTД RUPTLY  live  	  	"  03:59 GMT, Jun 02, 2018 "	 	" search Menu mobile  News USA UK Russian politics Business Sport Op-ed RT360 Shows On-Air Talent Projects  facebook twitter youtube google-plus instagram vkontakte telegram rss snapchat  EN_RT_USA-0  Home US News Zuckerberg roasted online for unapologetic update on Facebook’s ‘breach of trust’ Published time: 22 Mar, 2018 00:00 Edited time: 28 Mar, 2018 13:47 Get short URL  © Jaap Arriens / Global Look Press     Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was eviscerated on Twitter after he acknowledged a breach of trust over the Cambridge Analytica scandal but failed to apologize. Lessons have been learned, he said, pledging to do better in future. In a post on his own network on Wednesday, the billionaire philanthropist admitted that third-party apps which ask users for permission to access their personal data from the social networking site were a security risk, finally acknowledging a decade of concerns from users. Read more He cited Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan’s 2013 personality quiz, which mined data on some 300,000 Facebook users and their contacts, saying Facebook changed its data use rules in 2014, in response to this. In 2015 Facebook banned Kogan’s app after learning from Britain’s Guardian newspaper that he had sold data on to Cambridge Analytica (CA), the London-based political strategy firm which worked for a string of US politicians’ election campaigns, including that of President Donald Trump.   The firm certified that it had deleted that data, in response to demands from Facebook, but last week the Guardian and Britain’s Channel 4 News alleged that that had not been done. Channel 4 covertly filmed CA CEO Alexander Nix boasting of fixing elections around the world, using prostitutes and blackmail to control politicians. He has since been suspended by the firm. “This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Zuckerberg admitted. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it.” What he is saying is he is sorry that the secret support methods he allowed for Team @BarackObama was figured out by others and everyone knows about it now - he's only sorry he got caught: Zuckerberg breaks his silence over Cambridge Analytica scandal https://t.co/6H1PO6VCJb — Tony Shaffer (@T_S_P_O_O_K_Y) March 21, 2018 In a bid to reassure users amid calls for a boycott of the platform, Zuckerberg claimed Facebook had already had most of the security measures needed to prevent a repeat of the data breach in place for years. Disastrous statement from Mark Zuckerberg. He acts like he was the victim! No apology, no responsibility, no remorse No promise to stop selling your data to the highest bidder You aren’t users to him, you’re products — Jack Posobiec  (@JackPosobiec) March 21, 2018 “But we also made mistakes, there's more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he said. “I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I'm responsible for what happens on our platform.” What's not in Zuckerberg's 937-word statement: No pledge to address Congress No discussion of regulation No reckoning of why Facebook now cares about this old event (they got busted, stock dropped) No words like apology, sorry, regret More in our lead story at 6pm tonight... — Ari Melber (@AriMelber) March 21, 2018 Twitter was alive on Wednesday night with posts pointing out that, for Zuckerberg at least, sorry seems to be the hardest word. Like many with savior delusions, Mark Zuckerberg doesn't know how to say sorry. So I edited the opening and closing of his non-apology apology for him -- no charge. pic.twitter.com/9R4Y1sq3Y2 — Anand Giridharadas (@AnandWrites) March 21, 2018 However, Zuckerberg eventually uttered the s-word in an interview with CNN on Wednesday evening. “This was a major breach of trust, and I'm really sorry that this happened,” he said. The CEO also said Facebook would testify before Congress on the scandal, but did not commit to appearing in person. “What we try to do is send the person at Facebook who will have the most knowledge,” he said. “If that's me, then I am happy to go.” Zuckerberg said he was willing to consider outside regulation of Facebook, within limits. “I’m not sure we shouldn’t be regulated,” he said. “There are things like ad transparency regulation that I would love to see.” In a series of interviews, he tried to placate all concerns. He told the New York Times Facebook’s security force would be doubled. “We’ll have more than 20,000 people working on security and community operations by the end of the year, I think we have about 15,000 now.” He added claims that Facebook had already countered fake news bots from eastern Europe in last year’s special election in Alabama. “We found a significant number of Macedonian accounts that were trying to spread false news, and were able to eliminate those,” he said. Zuckerberg also complained of having to police racist and other prejudiced content on his social media platform. “Where’s the line on hate speech?” he asked Recode. “I mean, who chose me to be the person that did that? I guess I have to, because of where we are now, but I’d rather not.” Think your friends would be interested? Share this story! Trends: Cambridge Analytica news Mark Zuckerberg Follow news the mainstream media ignores: Like RT’s Facebook  Facebook ‘quality news’ prioritization may result in ‘bias & won’t change quality’  #DeleteFacebook trending as users fume over Cambridge Analytica data harvesting scandal   Where to watch Schedule Subscribe to RT newsletter to get stories the mainstream media won’t tell you Subscribe EN_RT_USA-1   Zuckerberg lost $5 billion in a day following Facebook scandal  Assange agrees to share ‘evidence’ in Cambridge Analytica probe by British MPs  WhatsApp co-founder calls on users to #DeleteFacebook  EN_RT_USA-2  260x180  العربية esp рус de fr инотв rтд ruptly facebook twitter youtube google-plus instagram vkontakte telegram rss snapchat RT News App News USA UK Russian politics Business Sport Op-ed RT360 Shows Projects RT Play Live Applications Where to watch Schedule Business projects On-Air Talent Legal disclaimer Privacy policy About us Contact info Feedback Vacancies © Autonomous Nonprofit Organization “TV-Novosti”, 2005–2018. All rights reserved. This website uses cookies. Click here to find out more. Accept cookies 1x1 Begin comScore Tag End comScore Tag google analytics google analytics LiveInternet counter /LiveInternet tns-counter.ru / tns-counter.ru begin of Top100 code end of Top100 code Yandex.Metrika counter /Yandex.Metrika counter contentinsights counter contentinsights counter "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																		
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1061] Cambridge Analytica and Our Lives Inside the Surveillance Machine | The New Yorker The New Yorker Shop Sign in Link your subscription News Culture Books Business & Tech Humor Cartoons Magazine Video Podcasts Archive Goings On The New Yorker Elements Cambridge Analytica and Our Lives Inside the Surveillance Machine By Adrian Chen March 21, 2018 Photograph by Joshua Bright / The Washington Post / Getty In 2006, a local pollster in Nepal was kidnapped by Maoist rebels while conducting opinion surveys on behalf of the American political strategist Stan Greenberg. The Maoists, who had been waging a long-running insurgency against the government, did not issue their typical ransom demands—money or weapons in exchange for the prisoner. No, they wanted the polling data that Greenberg’s team had collected, evidently to gauge the political climate in the country for themselves. The researchers eventually handed it over. In his book “ Alpha Dogs ,” the British journalist James Harding cites this story as an example of how the business of political campaigning is being remade, across the globe, by a profusion of fine-grained data about voters and their habits. Where the consultants of the nineteen-sixties and seventies obsessed over how to use television to beam ideal images of their clients into voters’ homes, today’s spinmasters hope that big data will allow them to manipulate voters’ deepest hopes and fears. “What’s the currency of the world now?” one of Greenberg’s partners asks Harding. “It’s not gold, it’s data. It’s the information.” Twelve years later, the fixation on data as the key to political persuasion has exploded into scandal. For the past several days, the Internet has been enveloped in outrage over Facebook and Cambridge Analytica , the shadowy firm that supposedly helped Donald Trump win the White House. As with the Maoist rebels, this appears to be a tale of data-lust gone bad. In order to fulfill the promises that Cambridge Analytica made to its clients—it claimed to possess cutting-edge “psychographic profiles” that could judge voters’ personalities better than their own friends could—the company had to harvest huge amounts of information. It did this in an ethically suspicious way, by contracting with Aleksandr Kogan, a psychologist at the University of Cambridge, who built an app that collected demographic data on tens of millions of Facebook users, largely without their knowledge. “This was a scam—and a fraud,” Paul Grewal, Facebook’s deputy general counsel, told the Times over the weekend. Kogan has said that he was assured by Cambridge Analytica that the data collection was “perfectly legal and within the limits of the terms of service.” Despite Facebook’s performance of victimization, it has endured a good deal of blowback and blame. Even before the story broke, Trump’s critics frequently railed at the company for contributing to his victory by failing to rein in fake news and Russian propaganda. To them, the Cambridge Analytica story was another example of Facebook’s inability, or unwillingness, to control its platform, which allowed bad actors to exploit people on behalf of authoritarian populism. Democrats have demanded that Mark Zuckerberg, the C.E.O. of Facebook, testify before Congress. Antonio Tajani, the President of the European Parliament, wants to talk to him, too. “Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of five hundred million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy,” he said. On Wednesday afternoon, after remaining conspicuously silent since Friday night, Zuckerberg pledged to restrict third-party access to Facebook data in an effort to win back user trust. “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” he wrote on Facebook . But, as some have noted , the furor over Cambridge Analytica is complicated by the fact that what the firm did wasn’t unique or all that new. In 2012, Barack Obama’s reëlection campaign used a Facebook app to target users for outreach, giving supporters the option to share their friend lists with the campaign. These efforts, compared with those of Kogan and Cambridge Analytica, were relatively transparent, but users who never gave their consent had their information sucked up anyway. (Facebook has since changed its policies .) As the sociologist Zeynep Tufekci has written, Facebook itself is a giant “ surveillance machine ”: its business model demands that it gather as much data about its users as possible, then allow advertisers to exploit the information through a system so complex and opaque that misuse is almost guaranteed. Just because something isn’t new doesn’t mean that it’s not outrageous. It is unquestionably a bad thing that we carry out much of our online lives within a data-mining apparatus that sells influence to the highest bidder. My initial reaction to the Cambridge Analytica scandal, though, was jaded; the feeling came from having seen how often, in the past, major public outcries about online privacy led nowhere. In most cases, after the calls to delete Facebook die down and the sternly worded congressional letters stop being written, things pretty much go back to normal. Too often, privacy scandals boil down to a superficial fix to some specific breach or leak, without addressing how the entire system undermines the possibility of control. What exciting big-data technique will be revealed, six years from now, as a democracy-shattering mind-control tool? Yet I eventually found reason to be genuinely repulsed by the story. On Monday, the U.K.’s Channel 4 published video footage of an undercover sting operation that it had conducted against Cambridge Analytica. A man working for the channel, posing as a political operative from Sri Lanka, met with the firm’s representatives to discuss hiring them for a campaign. On camera, over three meetings in various swanky hotels around London, C.A.’s employees offer an increasingly sordid account of their methods and capabilities. The most unseemly revelation—and, in the context of the sting, the most ironic—comes when Alexander Nix, Cambridge Analytica’s C.E.O., seems to offer to entrap the client’s political rivals with secretly videotaped bribes and rendezvous with sex workers. (Nix was suspended on Tuesday.) Like much of the best investigative journalism, the Channel 4 video gives viewers the queasy sense of a rock being overturned and sinister things being exposed to the light. It is difficult to watch the video without becoming at least a little suspicious of the entire business of democracy, given how large a role political consultants such as Nix play in it these days. Perhaps it is naïve to be scandalized by the cravenness of political consultants in the age of Paul Manafort, whose global democratic-perversion tour took him from buffing the image of the Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, in the nineteen-eighties, to running Trump’s campaign, or to fighting a fraud case for allegedly laundering his fees from the Ukrainian kleptocrat Viktor Yanukovych. But there was something shocking about the stark double identity of this posh “Old Etonian,” as all the British papers call Nix, who presented himself as a big-data wizard at marketing events but proposed basic gangsterism to clients in private. And in the same spiffy suit. Watching the video makes you understand that the ethical difference between outright electoral corruption and psychographics is largely a matter of degree. Both are shortcuts that warp the process into something small and dirty. You don’t need to believe Cambridge Analytica’s own hype about the persuasive power of its methods to worry about how data-obsessed political marketing can undermine democracy. The model of the voter as a bundle of psychological vulnerabilities to be carefully exploited reduces people to mathematical inputs. The big debates about values and policies that campaigns are supposed to facilitate and take part in are replaced by psychographically derived messages targeted to ever-tinier slivers of voters who are deemed by an algorithm to be persuadable. The organization of all of online life by data-mining operations makes this goal seem attainable, while an industry of data scientists and pollsters pitch it as inevitable. Candidates, voters, and pundits, enthralled with the geek’s promise of omniscience, rush to buy in—at least until it’s used by someone they don’t like. Cambridge Analytica is as much a symptom of democracy’s sickness as its cause. Adrian Chen joined The New Yorker as a staff writer in 2016. Read more » Cambridge Analytica Facebook Donald Trump Sign up for our daily newsletter and get the best of The New Yorker in your in-box. Go Most Popular How Pusha T’s “The Story of Adidon” Viciously Undercuts Drake’s Celebrity By Doreen St. Félix The Finale of “The Americans” Was Elegant, Potent, and Unforgettable By Emily Nussbaum Translating “The Americans,” and Seeing a Mirror of My Own American Experience By Masha Gessen Kim Kardashian Meeting Donald Trump in the Oval Office Is a Nightmare We Can’t Wake Up From By Naomi Fry Ivanka Trump, Samantha Bee, and the Strange Path of an Ancient Epithet By Katy Waldman Video Putin, Russia, and Trump David Remnick speaks with Masha Gessen about the chance that Donald Trump colluded with Vladimir Putin, whether it matters, and surprising pockets of resistance in Russia. Recommended Stories Our Columnists The Latest Cambridge Analytica Exposé Raises More Questions About the Firm’s Role in the Trump Campaign An undercover report showed executives at the company boasting of their influence in Trump’s surprise election victory. By  John Cassidy Elements A So-Called Expert’s Uneasy Dive Into the Trump-Russia Frenzy Is it possible to express skepticism about Kremlin interference without the Internet turning you into a pro-Trump propagandist? By  Adrian Chen News Desk Cambridge Analytica, Facebook, and the Revelations of Open Secrets What Cambridge Analytica did with Facebook data wasn’t a “breach,” it was a consequence of privacy policies that are as obscure as they are lax. By  Sue Halpern How Pusha T’s “The Story of Adidon” Viciously Undercuts Drake’s Celebrity In the latest chapter in the musicians’ petty, transcendent beef, Drake responded not with the venom of a battle rapper but with the anxiety of a pop politician. By  Doreen St. Félix Listen to the New Yorker Radio Hour Buy the Cover Play the Crossword Play the Jigsaw Puzzle News & Politics Daily Comment Our Columnists News Desk Culture Cultural Comment Culture Desk Goings On About Town The Critics Jia Tolentino Persons of Interest Business, Science & Tech Currency Elements Maria Konnikova Humor Daily Shouts Shouts & Murmurs The Borowitz Report Cartoons Daily Cartoon Cartoon Caption Contest Cartoon Bank Books & Fiction Page-Turner Books Literary Lives Poems Fiction Magazine This Week's Issue Archive Subscribe Photography Photo Booth Portfolio Video Culture Humor Politics Business Science & Tech Books Sports Podcasts The New Yorker Radio Hour Political Scene The Writer's Voice Fiction Poetry Out Loud More Customer Care Buy the Cover Apps Crossword Puzzle Jigsaw Puzzle SecureDrop Store RSS Site Map Newsletters The Daily Culture Review Podcasts Cartoons John Cassidy The Borowitz Report Fiction Goings On About Town About Us About Careers Contact FAQ Media Kit Press Accessibility Help Sections News & Politics Culture Business, Science & Tech Humor Cartoons Books & Fiction Magazine Photography Video Podcasts More Newsletters About Careers Contact FAQ Media Kit Press Accessibility Help Follow Us 2018 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18).  Your California Privacy Rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products and services that are purchased through links on our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers. Ad Choices Our sites Allure Ars Technica Backchannel Bon Appétit Brides Condé Nast Traveler Epicurious Glamour Golf Digest Golf World GQ GQ Style Pitchfork Self Style Teen Vogue The New Yorker The Scene Vanity Fair Vogue W Wired News Culture Books Business & Tech Humor Cartoons Magazine Video Podcasts Archive Goings On Shop Sign in Link your subscription Amazon Match Buy Index Exchange Yieldbot Proximic Index Exchange "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1062] Hamas names suspect in bomb attack on PA premier | The Times of Israel This site is optimized with the Yoast SEO plugin v7.5.1 - https://yoast.com/wordpress/plugins/seo/ Google Tag Manager (noscript) Anti adblock  English العربية Français فارسی العربية Français فارسی  Hamas names suspect in bomb attack on PA premier  Home Israel & the Region Jewish Times Israel Inside The Blogs Startup Israel Newsletters What Matters Most Today Updates from Silicon Wadi The Best Reads of the Week Partners Atlanta New Jersey New York Pittsburgh United Kingdom For Publishers    home page Hamas names suspect in bomb attack on PA premier Terror group says Anas abu Koussa is lead suspect in bombing that Palestinian Authority has accused it of orchestrating    Hamas personnel inspect the site of an explosion that occurred as the convoy of Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah entered Gaza through the Erez crossing with Israel, on the main road in Beit Hanoun, Gaza Strip, on March 13, 2018. (AP Photo/Adel Hana) / article-content-container The Times of Israel liveblogged Wednesday’s events as they unfolded. Texas bombing suspect blows himself up as police close in ROUND ROCK, Texas — The suspect in a series of bombing attacks in Austin blows himself up early Wednesday as authorities closed in, a dramatic end to a weekslong siege of the Texas capital, where two were killed and four injured in a series of blasts. "		" Authorities had zeroed in on the suspect in the last 24 to 36 hours and located his vehicle at a hotel on Interstate 35 in the suburb of Round Rock, Austin Police Chief Brian Manley says at a news conference. They were waiting for ballistic vehicles to arrive to move in for an arrest when his vehicle began to drive away, Manley says. Authorities followed the vehicle, which ran into a ditch on the side of the road, the police chief says. "							 									Get The Times of Israel's Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories 								 									Free Sign Up 								" When members of the SWAT team approached, the suspect detonated an explosive device inside the vehicle, the police chief says. The blast knocked back one officer, while a second officer fired his weapon, Manley says. Authorities identify the suspect only as a 24-year-old white man and wouldn’t say if he was from Austin. Austin has been targeted by four package bombings since March 2 that killed two people and seriously wounded four others. A fifth parcel bomb detonated at a FedEx distribution center near San Antonio early Tuesday. Manley says the suspect is believed to be responsible for all the major Austin bombings. Authorities also say they didn’t know his motive. — AP Emergency vehicles stage near the site of another explosion on March 20, 2018, in Austin, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  Death toll from market attack in Damascus rises to 38 BEIRUT — The death toll from an insurgent mortar assault on a market in Damascus rises to 38, state media says Wednesday, making it one of the deadliest attacks in the capital since the start of the seven-year civil war. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights puts the death toll from Tuesday’s attack even higher, at 43, including 11 pro-government fighters. Videos of the aftermath posted online show scenes of chaos, with people screaming and bodies and mannequins strewn across the ground. The government blames the attack on rebels in the Eastern Ghouta suburbs, where Syrian troops backed by Russian warplanes have been waging a major offensive over the past month. Mohammed Haitham al-Husseini, director of the hospital in Damascus, tells Al-Ikhbariya that 35 others were wounded in the mortar attack, with six in intensive care. He says most of the casualties were women and children. — AP  Austrian diplomat summoned from Israel over ‘Nazi’ shirt VIENNA — Austria’s foreign ministry summons an attache from its embassy in Israel after he posted a picture of himself on social media wearing a T-shirt bearing the name of a Nazi tank division. A screenshot of the post on Juergen-Michael Kleppich’s Facebook page shows him in the green shirt with the words “Stand your ground” and “Frundsberg,” the Falter weekly reported. The last name of Georg von Frundsberg, who was a mercenary in the 15th century, was used by the Nazis during World War II for its 10th SS Panzer division. Foreign Minister Karin Kneissl orders Kleppich “be summoned to Vienna immediately to submit to a legal probe into the accusations in the media,” her ministry says. The episode is the latest embarrassment for a member of the far-right Freedom Party (FPOe) since it came to power in December in a coalition with the center-right People’s Party. Kleppich, who is also an FPOe local councilor in a district of Vienna, had previously posted a photo of his grandfather in a Nazi uniform, complete with swastika, according to Falter. — AFP  Soldier grilled by Military Police over accidental shooting death of comrade Military Police question an IDF soldier suspected of killing his comrade when his weapon accidentally discharged. Investigators say the findings of the investigation will be transferred to military prosecutors, according to Hadashot TV news. The suspect is suspected of playing with his gun when it went off, killing Sgt. Shahar Strug, 20, a member of the elite Duvdevan unit. Strug will be buried today at 3 p.m. at the military cemetery in Kiryat Shaul. Sgt. Shahar Strug (IDF spokesman)  IS suicide bomber kills 29 as Afghans celebrate new year KABUL, Afghanistan — An Islamic State suicide bomber strikes on the road to a Shiite shrine in Afghanistan’s capital on Wednesday, killing at least 29 people as Afghans celebrate the Persian new year. The Public Health Ministry says another 52 people were wounded in the attack, which was carried out by a bomber on foot. The Islamic State group claims the attack in an online statement, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadi websites. IS says the attack targeted “a gathering of Shiites celebrating Nauruz.” The Persian new year, known in Afghanistan as Nauruz, is a national holiday, and the country’s minority Shiites typically celebrate by visiting shrines. The Sunni extremists of IS have repeatedly targeted Shiites, who they view as apostates deserving of death. The attack took place near Kabul University and a government hospital, around one kilometer (mile) away from the Sakhi shrine, where people were gathered to celebrate the new year, says Gen. Daud Amin, Kabul’s police chief. — AP Police patrol the streets after a suicide attack in front of the Kabul university in Kabul, on March 21, 2018. (AP Photo/ Rahmat Gul)  Soldier gets 5.5 year prison sentence for raping female comrade A military court sentences an IDF soldier convicted of raping a female soldier who served with him to 5.5 years in prison, the army says. The court also demotes the soldier to the rank of sergeant and orders he pay compensation to the victim. The IDF says the incident took place at the home of the female soldier in June 2017.  Saudis revamp school curriculum to combat Muslim Brotherhood RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — Saudi Arabia is seeking to purge its school curriculum of any influence of the Muslim Brotherhood and dismiss employees who sympathize with the banned group, the education minister says. The government will “fight extremist ideologies by reviewing school curricula and books to ensure they are free of the banned Muslim Brotherhood’s agenda,” Ahmed bin Mohammed al-Issa says in a statement Tuesday. It also seeks to “ban books attributed to the Muslim Brotherhood from all schools and universities and remove all those who sympathies with the group,” he adds. The statement comes after Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told CBS television in an interview Sunday that elements of the Muslim Brotherhood, designated as a terror group by the kingdom, had infiltrated Saudi schools. Many members of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood — who advocate toppling rulers deemed unjust — sought refuge in Saudi Arabia after being persecuted in the 1960s by then Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser. The Islamists were widely employed in the education and public sectors, putting aside their proselytism and submitting to Saudi Arabia’s official Wahhabi ideology that requires obedience to the ruler. — AFP  Rivlin pays condolence visit to family of Old City stabbing victim President Reuven Rivlin pays a condolence visit to the family of Adiel Kolman, who was stabbed to death Sunday in a terror attack in Jerusalem’s Old City. “When I heard you say you choose life, when I heard about the strength you found the morning of [his] passing to tell the Israeli nation about who your special son was, how great his soul was [and] how much room it had for everyone — my heart broke,” Rivlin says he told Kolman’s mother Yael. Kolman was buried Monday in the central West Bank settlement of Kochav Hashachar, where he lived. The terrorist, 28-year-old Abd al-Rahman Bani Fadel from Aqraba, near the West Bank city of Nablus, was shot dead by police at the scene. אמא אהובה, כששמעתי אותך אומרת שאת בוחרת בחיים, כששמעתי על הכוחות שמצאת בבוקר הפטירה לספר לעם ישראל על מי היה הבן המיוחד שלך, מה גדולה היתה נפשו, כמה מקום היה בה לכולם – נשבר לבי – כך אמרתי הבוקר ליעל, אמו של עדיאל קולמן ז""ל, שנרצח בפיגוע הדקירה הנפשע בעיר העתיקה. יהי זכרו ברוך. pic.twitter.com/klKiFHNzKg — ראובן (רובי) ריבלין (@ruvirivlin) March 21, 2018  Egypt hands life sentences to 9 on terror-related charges CAIRO — An Egyptian court on Wednesday sentences in absentia nine alleged Muslim Brotherhood members to life imprisonment for forming a “terrorist cell” to plot attacks on security forces and other institutions. Life sentences in Egypt are equal to 25 years, and the suspects, who remain at large, can be re-tried once they are apprehended. The Cairo Criminal Court also sentences another 13 defendants to 10 years each on similar charges, including planning to kill public figures and security officials, and joining an outlawed group, a reference to the Brotherhood. Two minors are sentenced each to two years. Those 15 suspects are in custody and their sentences can be appealed. Egypt designated the Brotherhood as a terrorist organization after the 2013’s removal from power of president Mohammed Morsi, a senior Brotherhood figure. Morsi has been jailed and sentenced to death. Also today, Egypt’s chief prosecutor refers 30 people to trial, suspected of belonging to an Islamic State affiliate. According to a statement, the suspects plotted assault on security personnel and state institutions, as well as Egypt’s Christian minority and churches. The statement says they trained in IS camps in Syria and Libya. No date has been set for the trial. — AP  Elbit seeking to operate crop-surveying drone from North Dakota airport CASSELTON, North Dakota — An Israeli defense and electronics company wants to launch a crop-surveying drone from the Casselton Regional Airport. Airport Authority chairman Bob Miller tells KFGO the Israeli company, Elbit Systems, would gather crop information across the Upper Midwest that would be analyzed and sold to farmers. Elbit wants to lease hangar space for the large drone it flies, and install equipment it needs to fly it. The FAA requires a chase plane to provide visual supervision when the drone flies. Lease costs are still being negotiated. The company would have nine employees based in Casselton during the months the flights are made. — AP  Soldier killed by stray bullet laid to rest Hundreds attend the funeral of Sgt. Shahar Strug, a member of the IDF’s elite Duvdevan unit killed by a stray bullet on his base. He is being buried at the military cemetery in Kiryat Shaul. His funeral comes as Military Police question the soldier whose gun accidentally discharged, killing Strug. בשעה זאת מובא למנוחות בבית העלמין הצבאי בקרית שאול, חייל צה""ל, סמ""ר שחר סטרוג, לוחם יחידת דובדבן בן 20 מגבעתיים, שמת מפצעיו, לאחר שנפצע באורח אנוש מפליטת כדור שנורה ע""י חברו ליחידה. יהי זכרו ברוך. pic.twitter.com/wKp3VjkpEF — Or Ravid אוֹר רביד (@OrRavid) March 21, 2018  UN envoy warns enemies ‘not to test’ Israel After Israel confirmed it destroyed a Syrian nuclear reactor in 2007, its envoy to the UN warns foes “not to test” the country’s resolve. “The international community must know that Israel will always protect the security of its citizens and take all necessary steps in the face of threats in our region,” says Danny Danon. “Our enemies would be wise not to test Israel’s resolve or question our readiness to defend our nation,” he adds. Danny Danon, Israel’s ambassador to the UN, speaks at the General Assembly on December 21, 2017, at United Nations headquarters. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan)  Russia: UK either behind spy poisoning or unable to stop ‘terrorist attack’ MOSCOW — Russia says Britain either failed to protect a Russian national from what it termed a “terrorist attack” or was itself behind the poisoning of the former double agent and his daughter. “The British authorities are either unable to ensure protection from such a… terrorist attack on its territory, or they directly or indirectly — I am not accusing anyone of anything here — directed the attack on a Russian national,” Vladimir Yermakov, head of the Russian foreign ministry’s non-proliferation and arms control department, tells foreign diplomatic staff. He also accuses the UK of “Russophobia.” “Pull yourselves away a little bit from your Russophobia, your island mentality,” says Yermakov. — AFP  Egypt’s Sissi urges big voter turnout, denies sidelining rivals CAIRO — Egypt’s President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi urges Egyptians on Wednesday to vote in next week’s election to show they are in charge, a day after he denied any role in excluding his rivals. The incumbent will run in the March 26-28 vote against a sole candidate whose half-hearted campaign poses no threat, after more heavyweight rivals were sidelined or detained. “I need you because the journey is not over,” Sissi tells a mostly female audience in a speech. “I need every lady and mother and sister, please, I need the entire world to see us in the street” voting. “Even if they vote ‘no.’ It’s still a big deal and a respectable thing which will be implemented… We should affirm to the world that this country is ruled by its people.” The former army chief was first elected in 2014, a year after ousting his predecessor Mohamed Morsi following mass protests against the Islamist president. — AFP Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi attending a military ceremony in Paris in October 2017. (AFP/Pool/Charles Platiau)  Liberman regrets allowing publication of Syria nuclear raid Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman says he regrets authorizing the military censor to allow attributing the 2007 strike on a Syrian nuclear reactor to Israel. Speaking with Haaretz, Liberman blasts “the war of credits and wave of mutual slander” sparked by the publication on details of the raid, which he says “shames” the military operation. “People simply broke through all the barricades and are simply letting information out, some of which could damage Israel’s security,” he says.  Netanyahu: Israel will stop its enemies from getting nukes Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addresses Israel’s bombing of a Syrian nuclear reactor in 2007 after Israeli confirmation of the strike. “The government of Israel, the IDF and the Mossad prevented Syria from developing a nuclear capability. They are deserving of all praise for this,” Netanyahu, who was opposition leader at the time, says in a statement. “The policy of Israel was and remains consistent: To prevent our enemies from acquiring nuclear weapons,” he adds.  Soldier-slapping teen to serve 8 months under plea deal Ahed Tamimi, a 17-year-old Palestinian being held for slapping and shoving IDF soldiers, will serve eight months in prison under a plea deal with military prosecutors. As part of the agreement, Tamimi will confess to four of the 12 charges against her, including incitement and assaulting a soldier. The plea deal has yet to be approved by the military court. News of the agreement was first reported by Channel 10. Tamimi was arrested in December after footage of her hitting soldiers was shared widely. Her arrest and continued detainment has made her a cause célèbre among Palestinians and their supporters. 17-year-old Palestinian Ahed Tamimi (R), arrives for the beginning of her trial at the Ofer Military Court in the West Ban on February 13, 2018. (Thomas Coex/AFP)  WhatsApp co-founder says dump Facebook The co-founder of WhatsApp, which was acquired by Facebook four years ago for $19 billion, has joined the movement to delete Facebook. Brian Acton tweets: “It’s time. #deletefacebook.” That hashtag is trending since reports surfaced in recent days regarding the improper use of personal information on Facebook by Cambridge Analytica, a political research firm used by the Trump campaign before the election. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has remained silent as nearly $50 billion in market capitalization of his company has been wiped out with investors fearing new oversight by government regulators. — AP It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018  Rebuffing criticism, Sissi challenger says campaign ‘very serious’ CAIRO — The little-known alternative candidate to Egypt’s president in next week’s election is insisting his campaign is serious, despite charges he entered the race at the last minute only to give it a veneer of legitimacy. On the sidelines of a news conference in Cairo on Wednesday in which he describes his candidacy as a patriotic duty, Moussa Mustapha Moussa says a lack of funding and donations have held his campaign back compared to President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi’s. Moussa says he doesn’t “have enough capabilities and supporters to give us free advertising, whereas president el-Sissi has that luxury” in the form of massive banners that dominate public thoroughfares in Egypt. Critics say the March 26-28 vote is a virtual one-man referendum, after all serious competitors were arrested or intimidated into withdrawing. — AP Egyptian presidential candidate Moussa Mustafa Moussa, center, arrives to his campaign headquarters, in downtown in Cairo, Egypt, on March 21, 2018. (AP Photo/Amr Nabil)  Rivlin praises political and security officials behind Syria nuclear raid President Reuven Rivlin praises the political and defense officials responsible for the 2007 operation to destroy the Syrian nuclear reactor. “Thank all of you who made the decision to strike down the nascent threat of a Syrian nuclear reactor, and those who carried out [the mission]. The people of Israel owe you a debt of honor, a debt of life,” Rivlin says, during a conference in memory of former Mossad chief Meir Dagan, who died in 2016. Dagan was the head of the spy agency during the 2007 operation. — Judah Ari Gross    RJC denounces Holocaust denier who won GOP nomination for Illinois House seat The Republican Jewish Coalition denounces Arthur Jones, a Holocaust denier who won the Republican nomination in an Illinois House district on Tuesday after running unopposed. “Arthur Jones is a Nazi, not a Republican. It is a disgrace that he has won the Republican nomination” in the Chicago-area district, says RJC Chairman Norm Coleman in a statement Wednesday. “Like the RNC and the Illinois GOP, the RJC has flat out rejected Arthur Jones. Jones does not represent Republican values, and he doesn’t deserve to have an ‘R’ after his name on the ballot. The GOP didn’t invite Jones into the party, the only mistake was not running a candidate in an uncompetitive, safe-Democrat district,” adds Coleman. “There is no place for Nazis and white supremacists in the Republican Party.”  Boris Johnson: Putin will use World Cup like Hitler used 1936 Olympics UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson likens Vladimir Putin to Adolf Hitler, saying the Russian president will use this summer’s World Cup soccer tournament as the Nazi dictator used the 1936 Olympics. “I think that your characterization of what is going to happen in Moscow, the World Cup, in all the venues — yes, I think the comparison with 1936 is certainly right. I think it’s an emetic prospect, frankly, to think of Putin glorying in this sporting event,” says Johnson in response to Labour MP Ian Austin, according to The Guardian. He says the government has not decided whether to advise British nationals not to attend the World Cup. Johnson was speaking with MPs regarding the recent poisoning in England of a former Russian double agent, which the UK and its allies have blamed on Moscow. Britain’s Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson arrives at Downing Street in London for the weekly cabinet meeting on March 20, 2018. (AFP Photo/Ben Stansall)  Report: Netanyahu, wife to be questioned Monday in Bezeq graft probe Police are seeking another round of questioning of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife Sara on Monday in the Bezeq graft probe, for the first time since a former adviser turned state’s witness in the high-profile corruption case, Hadashot TV news reports. The Netanyahus’ eldest son Yair may also be questioned then, according to the report. The prime minister and his wife were last questioned earlier this month in the Bezeq probe, known as Case 4000, which involves suspicions Netanyahu advanced legislation benefiting Bezeq owner Shaul Elovitch in exchange for flattering coverage from his Walla news site. Days later, Nir Hefetz, a former media adviser to the Netanyahu family, turned state’s witness in the investigation. He became the third Netanyahu confidant to do so in cases involving the premier, joining former Communications Ministry director-general Shlomo Filber and former chief of staff Ari Harrow. They were set to be questioned this week but the interrogation was reportedly pushed off due to the prime minister being unwell. — Raoul Wootliff  Deal reached to evacuate gunmen from besieged Ghouta BEIRUT — Syrian state media and a rebel spokesman say a deal has been reached to evacuate 7,500 gunmen and their families from a town in Eastern Ghouta to an opposition-held province in northern Syria. The deal would be the first instance of fighters evacuating the rebel-held region east of Damascus which has been under a ferocious government air and ground assault for a month. The state-run Addounia TV says 1,500 gunmen and 6,000 of their relatives would be evacuated Thursday from the town of Harasta in two batches to Idlib. Monther Fares, a spokesman for the powerful Ahrar al-Sham group, says the deal gives security guarantees for those who decide to stay in the town after the government takes over. — AP  Biden would ‘beat the hell’ out of Trump for disrespecting women MIAMI — Former US vice President Joe Biden says he would “beat the hell” out of President Donald Trump if they were in high school together and Trump disrespected women. The Democrat spoke Tuesday at an anti-sexual assault rally at the University of Miami. “A guy who ended up becoming our national leader said, ‘I can grab a woman anywhere and she likes it,'” Biden says. “If we were in high school, I’d take him behind the gym and beat the hell out of him.” Biden says any guy who disrespected women was “usually the fattest, ugliest S.O.B. in the room.” The school’s “It’s on Us” rally sought to change on-campus culture surrounding sexual assault. — AP Former US vice president Joe Biden speaks during a conference in Athens, June 7, 2017. (AP Photo/Petros Giannakouris, File)  Intel minister: Syria nuclear raid ‘sharpens’ message to Iran Intelligence Minister Israel Katz (Likud) says there is no fear of a Syrian reprisal following Israel’s confirmation of the raid on a nuclear reactor in Syria in 2007, while also warning Israel is prepared to take future action to prevent Iran from obtaining nukes. “No. One should never say no, but Syria in its current state is not a state that can respond,” Katz tells Reshet TV. “The fear of a Syrian retaliation then was far greater than today. Assad is fighting for survival, with Russian and Iranian backing. He has no interest in tussling with Israel…. The lessons have been learned,” he adds. “Assad knows full well about Israel’s [military] advantage, and the last thing he needs is a confrontation today over something that happened 11 years ago.” Katz also says the strike sends a message to Iran. Transportation and Intelligence Minister Yisrael Katz speaks during an interview with The Associated Press, in his office in Tel Aviv, Israel, November 9, 2017. (AP/Dan Balilty) “There’s also a message to Iran: There is the Begin doctrine which was introduced regarding Iraq,” says Katz, referring to the 1981 Israeli airstrikes on the Osirak nuclear reactor in Iraq. “The doctrine says that we will not allow anybody who threatens to destroy Israel to attain nuclear weapons.” “If we reach the moment where Iran is certainly about to get nuclear weapons, the entire defense and intelligence establishment in Israel stands in favor of preventing it,” he adds. Katz also says Israel hopes US President Donald Trump will change the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran and prevent the Islamic Republic from obtaining nuclear weapons. “The state of Israel makes clear, and I’m saying here in the clearest way, if it’s a case of a nuclear Iran or action, we will take action,” he says. “Israel won’t let Iran or any other state that threatens its existence to attain a nuclear capability.” Katz says publishing information on the Syrian strike “sharpens that message.”  Body of missing Israeli man found in India The Foreign Ministry says the body of an Israeli man missing in India since last week has been found. It says the body of Ori Zinder, a 44-year-old resident of Ra’anana, was found in the city of Tiruvannamalai and that Israeli diplomats in India and Foreign Ministry officials had been working to locate him since he was reported missing. The Foreign Ministry says Zinder’s family has been informed and that it is working to return his body to Israel for burial.  Barak slams Olmert amid finger-pointing over Syria nuclear raid Ehud Barak slams fellow former prime minister Ehud Olmert amid the fallout between political and security officials over the 2007 Israeli raid on a Syrian nuclear reactor. “Olmert was never really prime minister. He got there by chance. I’m sure that [ex-prime minister Ariel] Sharon would never have aimed to have him there. He played the role very well,” Barak tells Hadashot TV news. Asked whether Olmert, nonetheless, had made the courageous and correct decision to approve the strike on Syria’s reactor, Barak said: “Kevin Spacey is also a good actor. He played the president exceptionally well [in House of Cards]. That didn’t make him president. [Olmert] made that good decision… and he ultimately deserves credit for that.” Barak asserts that Olmert’s upcoming book proves he wasn’t fit to be premier. “To think that the person who wrote that book… was the prime minister of Israel, and took fateful decisions is disturbing, to put it mildly,” Barak says. Ehud Olmert (L) and Ehud Barak visit an IDF base in southern Israel. (Amos Ben Gershom/GPO/Flash90)  Woman slaps military prosecutor at trial of soldier-slapping teen An Israeli supporter of a Palestinian teenager charged with slapping an Israeli soldier is arrested for slapping a military prosecutor. The woman slaps the prosecutor at the Ofer Military Court, where Ahed Tamimi is on trial, a police spokesman says. The spokesman says officers were called to the hearing and arrested the woman for questioning. Tamimi has been held in custody since December, when she was filmed slapping and hitting two soldiers in her West Bank village.  Kushner, Greenblatt meet with Saudi crown prince to talk Trump peace plan Jared Kushner and Jason Greenblatt, the Trump administration’s point men for Middle East peace, met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in Washington Tuesday to discuss the US plan for Israeli-Palestinian peace, the official Saudi Press Agency says. “They discussed issues of common interests between the two countries and ways of consolidating them in addition to the latest peace process developments in the Middle East, which represent great importance for the two countries, and the necessity of finding a peaceful and lasting solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict,” the news agency reports . Notably, a readout of the meeting from the White House Wednesday made no mention of the Trump administration’s peace plan. #CrownPrinceinDC | Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman met with Jared Kushner and Jason Greenblatt to discuss the Peace Plan's future. Both countries discussed their shared interest to find a sustainable resolution to the conflict and how best to achieve it pic.twitter.com/phLEvI57QC — وزارة الخارجية ???????? (@KSAMOFA) March 21, 2018  Khamenei claims Iran has foiled US plans in Mideast TEHRAN, Iran — Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei claims Tehran has neutralized US plans in the Middle East, in a speech Wednesday marking the Persian New Year. “Those who interfere in all the affairs of the world protest and ask: ‘Why does Iran intervene in the affairs of Iraq and Syria?’ What is it to you? The Islamic Republic of Iran has succeeded in neutralizing US plans in the region,” he says. Khamenei accuses the United States of planning to “create oppressive and rebel groups like Daesh (the Islamic State group) to distract people in the region from the Zionist regime (Israel) and keep them occupied with internal conflicts.” In this photo from May 2, 2016, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei addresses a group of teachers in Tehran, Iran. (Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader via AP, File) The all-powerful Iranian leader’s speech is delivered in the holy city of Masshad and broadcast on state television. Iran has supported the governments of Syria and Iraq by sending “military advisers” and its own “volunteers” along with Afghans and Pakistanis to fight jihadists and rebels. Its presence in the region has been denounced by the United States as well as France, Britain, Saudi Arabia and Israel. Khamenei says Iran was there “at the request of the governments and people” of those countries. “Without a doubt, the United States will not reach its goals in the region and, thank God, we will achieve ours,” he adds. — AFP  Soldier-slapping teen slapped with 8-month prison sentence A Palestinian teenager is convicted for slapping and shoving Israeli soldiers as part of plea deal reached with military prosecutors, the army says. Under the plea agreement, Ahed Tamimi will serve eight months in prison and pay a NIS 5,000 fine, while admitting to assaulting the soldiers in the December incident, as well as three other charges. Tamimi’s mother, Narimam Tamimi, will also serve eight months in prison and be fined NIS 6,000 under the plea deal for her role in the incident, which was filmed and shared widely. Nour Tamimi, Ahed’s cousin, is sentenced to prison but will not be incarcerated because of time served. She is fined NIS 2,000. “The security forces and the IDF will continue to work to maintain security and public order in the areas of Judea and Samaria, and to enforce the law against those who harm IDF soldiers and incite violence,” the army says.  Hamas names suspect in bomb attack on PA premier GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip — Hamas on Wednesday names a fugitive suspect in a bomb attack on Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah, two days after the Islamist terror group itself was accused of the Gaza attack. Hamdallah was unhurt by the roadside blast that struck his convoy on March 13, in what Palestinian officials have called an assassination attempt as he entered the Hamas-run strip on a rare visit. The interior ministry in Gaza on Wednesday says it was searching for Anas abu Koussa, born in 1993, describing him as the lead suspect. It doesn’t give a possible motive for the attack on Hamdallah, head of government in President Mahmoud Abbas’s Palestinian Authority. A Hamas security source says investigators had arrested and were questioning three people, including two members of the PA-run intelligence services. Another security source says he believed radical Salafist Muslims had planted the bomb, which lightly injured six people. Hamas and the West Bank-based PA have been bitter rivals for a decade since the terror group seized control of Gaza. — AFP Hamas personnel inspect the site of an explosion that occurred as the convoy of Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah entered Gaza through the Erez crossing with Israel, on the main road in Beit Hanoun, Gaza Strip, on March 13, 2018. (AP Photo/Adel Hana)  read more: Israel & the Region Liveblog    comments span>report inappropriate comments"																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1063]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - Russia says Boris Johnson 'poisoned with hatred' after comparing World Cup to Hitler's Olympics – as it happened | Politics | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  UK World Business Football UK politics Environment Education Science Tech Global development Cities Obituaries More     Russia says Boris Johnson 'poisoned with hatred' after comparing World Cup to Hitler's Olympics – as it happened  Updated      Crowds giving a Nazi salute at the Berlin Olympics in 1936. Boris Johnson said, under Putin, the World Cup in Russia this year would be similar. Photograph: Ullstein Bild/ullstein bild via Getty Images  Wed 21 Mar 2018 First published on Wed 21 Mar 2018      Show       Show   1.18pm Russia says Johnson 'poisoned with hatred' after he compares Putin's World Cup to Hitler's Olympics The Russian foreign ministry has responded to Boris Johnson’s Hitler jibe, Sky News reports. A spokeswoman for the Russian foreign ministry says Foreign Secretary is ""poisoned with hatred and anger"" after Boris Johnson suggested Russian president Vladimir Putin would use the World Cup in Russia in the same way Hitler used the 1936 Olympics to bolster his country's image March 21, 2018 The use of the word “poisoned” may not be coincidental ...   12.25pm Back in the foreign affairs committee, Labour’s Ian Austin says Washington seems keen to rip up the Iran nuclear deal. Will the UK fight to keep it? Johnson says the UK is committed to the deal. Q: Is some sort of compromise possible? Johnson says he thinks it is, “it really is.” He says he now wants to persuade America to keep it. He is not sure he will be able to persuade President Trump, but he thinks they are all better off keeping the deal, and Iran not having nuclear weapons. He says it could be possible to keep the joint comprehensive plan of action (JCPOA) without America participating, but that this would be hard. Austin ends by asking why, whenever Johnson gives evidence to the committee, Downing Street sends the prime minister’s parliamentary private secretary, Seema Kennedy, along to the hearing to keep an eye on him. Johnson says that that is a tribute to how seamlessly the Foreign Office and Number 10 work together. And that’s it. The hearing is over.   12.17pm Senior Russian diplomatic and military officials have accused the UK of hiding and possibly planning to destroy evidence in the investigation into the Salisbury nerve agent attack, my colleague Andrew Roth in Moscow writes. The comments came during a remarkable briefing at Moscow’s foreign ministry given for all foreign ambassadors in Russia, to lay out the country’s argument for why it is not responsible for the attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia , on 4 March. Here is Andrew’s story. Russia accuses UK of hiding evidence in Skripal case Read more The Russian embassy in London has been tweeting about this. Head of @mfa_russia Department of Nonproliferation & Arms Control Ermakov held a briefieng for foreign diplomats about the latest developments in Skripal case. Overwhelming majority believe that any conclusions should follow evidence - UK in minority. pic.twitter.com/TUrVZA77kr March 21, 2018    12.15pm Paul Waugh has tweeted more about the Foreign Office and SCL. Mind you before Labour leap in, No10 added FCO contract started in 2009 and Home Off one started in 2008/9 - under Gordon Brown govt. No Govt depts have had ""direct contracts with Cambridge Analytica"". March 21, 2018    12.12pm Tom Tugendhat , the committee chair, says he has just seen a tweet saying that at the afternoon lobby briefing Downing Street admitted that the government has had two more contracts with SCL, the Cambridge Analytica parent company. One was with the Foreign Office, he says. Tugendhat does not identify the tweet, but it may be this one from HuffPost’s Paul Waugh. No10 reveals two more Govt contracts with SCL parent company of Cambridge Analytica: one with FCO (for training), one with Home Office (for comms). MOD have also had contract. All have ended. March 21, 2018 Johnson says this is news to him. He agrees to write to the committee with details. Updated at 12.15pm EDT   12.07pm Johnson says earlier he referred to the Salisbury attack being an attack on “agents”. He says he wants to correct the record. He meant “agent”. He does not want to be misundersood. (In other words, he is clarifying that he was not implying Yulia Skripal, Sergei’s daughter, was an agent.) Chris Bryant says Johnson also talked about assassins. Was he definitely saying more than one person was involved? Johnson says he was not making a particular point. But he says it can be assumed that more than one person was involved. Johnson says the attack on the Skripals was not the work of one person acting alone. Johnson on Salisbury operation. ""We can take it that this was not confined to one individual"" Adds this should not be taken as news. March 21, 2018 Updated at 12.08pm EDT   12.03pm The SNP’s Stephen Gethins goes next. Q: Why did we asks for an opt-out from the EU’s common foreign and security policy during the transition? Johnson says if the UK was still in the CFSP, and the EU decided to relax sanctions on Russia over Ukraine, it would have to comply. That would be unacceptable. He says that it why the UK asked for an opt-out.   12.00pm Labour’s Ian Murray goes next. He says the Foreign Office website says membership of the single market helps promote UK growth. Does Johnson agree? Johnson says it must be an old website page. Murray says it isn’t. He refreshes the page on his laptop just to make the point.   11.55am The SNP’s Stephen Gethins goes next. Q: A memo you wrote on the Irish border issue was leaked. You said you would publish it. When will you do so? Johnson says it is not government policy to publish documents just because they have been leaked. He says reports of what the memo said were misleading. Q: Will you publish it? That is not government policy, he says.   11.53am Tom Tugendhat goes next. Q: Where will the 250 new posts be going? Johnson says the committee will be the first to know. Q: But you must have an idea where they are going to go? Is you priority the Commonwealth, or China? Johnson says he set out his priorities in the global Britain memo he sent to the committee. Tugendhat says that just summarised what has been Foreign Office policy for the last 60 years. Johnson says he is not prepared for announcements today.   11.49am Johnson says he is thrilled that the committee published a report on global Britain. He can sum the strategy up simply. The more global Britain is, it is better for the globe and better for Britain, he says.   11.47am Andrew Rosindell, a Conservative, goes next. He says he wants to ask about the Commonwealth and global Britain. (The committee recently published a report on the Foreign Office’s global Britain strategy, concluding that it was little more than a meaningless slogan.) Johnson says the Commonwealth is very important to him. He says it is an institution that has stood the test of time, and one that has been undervalued by Britain.   11.40am Bob Seely goes next. Q: Is the government gathering information on people who have been responsible for war crimes in Syria, including Russians? Yes, says Johnson. But he says at the moment there is no court in which these people could be tried. Russia would veto a referral to the international criminal court. Q: So it is pointless? Not necessarily, says Johnson. He says securing justice can take time.   div necessary for flexbox of Newest  Oldest  Politics Politics live with Andrew Sparrow  PMQs Jeremy Corbyn Theresa May Boris Johnson Fishing            View all comments >  Order by newest oldest recommendations Show 25 50 100 All Threads collapsed expanded unthreaded Loading comments… Trouble loading? View more comments   Most viewed    UK World Business Football UK politics Environment Education Science Tech Global development Cities Obituaries    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
[w1064]   [if IE 9]> endif]    Sections  Home    Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk   Account Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk [if IE 8 endif] [if IE 9																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1065]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - The evil genius of Cambridge Analytica was to exploit those we trust most | Richard Wolffe | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  US World Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness More      The evil genius of Cambridge Analytica was to exploit those we trust most  Contact author @richardwolffedc Wed 21 Mar 2018 Last modified on Fri 25 May 2018         Alexander Nix, the now suspended CEO of Cambridge Analytica. Photograph: Henry Nicholls/Reuters ow on earth did Donald Trump win the presidency when he lost the popular vote by such historic margins? To put this in perspective: John Kerry lost the popular vote in 2004 by almost the same number of votes as Donald Trump 12 years later. This is not a small question, to be noodled over by disgruntled Democrats and political scientists. It lies at the heart of the likely impeachment of Trump himself, and it will dominate at least the next two US elections. The answer is fundamental to our democratic culture of fair elections, the rule of law, the role of technology and the free media. Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Read more Now there are any numbers of factors that could have swung 40,000 votes in three states – Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania – which created the catastrophic fluke of the Trump presidency in the electoral college. But there are no factors as large and persistent as a weaponized Facebook – the trusted and entirely unregulated delivery vehicle for an astonishing amount of highly targeted disinformation. Without Facebook, there would have been no Pizzagate, and the hacked DNC emails would have struggled to reach their intended audience. The strangely Russia-loving Green party would never have tallied enough votes to skew those three battleground states towards Trump. All roads lead to Facebook and the small company that plundered its vast user data: Cambridge Analytica . Together the social network looks less like a group of friends and more like the Silk Road black market of arms and drugs dealers. Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer Thanks to the reporting of the Observer, the Guardian and Channel 4, we now know that Cambridge Analytica could happily arrange for a candidate to fall into a compromising scandal with a Ukraine prostitute or a bribery sting. As the now-suspended CEO, Alexander Nix, put it so well: “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true as long as they’re believed.” In his snooty British accent, Nix is only saying – and converting into highly effective digital marketing – what Trump has long believed: lies don’t matter as long as they’re believed. So while it might seem grandiose for Nix to boast that he played a central role in getting Trump elected, he also identifies several key truths that Trump supporters may refuse to believe. First, the use of posts from fake activist groups that blur the lines between a campaign and outside groups. “This stuff infiltrates the online community, but with no branding, so it’s unattributable, untrackable,” Nix helpfully explained to undercover reporters. Election laws will surely change as a result of Nix’s bragging and Facebook’s arrogant and inept response to this snowballing scandal. Nobody could get away with such brazenly political manipulation in TV ads. Why should they do so on Facebook or any other part of the web? Facebook is unlikely to collapse, but its decline has already begun Cambridge Analytica also says their data “informed all the strategy” of the Trump campaign, including use of the “Crooked Hillary” slur that Trump still deploys to this day. At this point, lots of Trump supporters – and many political pundits – like to say that nobody could be this powerful. No single firm could have exerted this much influence. But that ignores the simple premise that has taken Facebook to such epic heights until now: that we trust our friends as a source of information far more than we have trusted traditional media and other institutions. The Trump campaign – aided and abetted by Russian hackers and trolls, conservative billionaires, and the brainiacs of firms like Cambridge Analytica – drove its disinformation through the people we like to trust: our friends. The evil geniuses of Cambridge Analytica were, as Channel 4 has shown, not nearly the geniuses they thought they were. Seriously, guys: when your company is registered in Delaware, you should probably realize that you come under US jurisdiction. Besides, we now know that many firms hoovered up Facebook’s data and the social media giant didn’t care. The end is surely nigh for Cambridge Analytica, and its key executives and investors can expect subpoenas in the near future. If the Democrats win back the House this year, we can expect new laws to prevent unattributable, untrackable political ads on digital platforms in time for the election that will decide Trump’s fate. 'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine Read more But before we reach that point, Facebook’s future is already in serious doubt. It is now a polluted space, where you have no idea if your friends are real, if their posts are disinformation, if the ads are legal, and if your user data is safe. You may still trust your friends, but you won’t trust what they post on Facebook. Advertising dollars will bleed away, removing the only thing Facebook really cares about. Developers will drift away because they won’t want to work for a polluted brand. And the regulators will start interfering with new product launches and new takeover targets. If that sounds ridiculous, cast your mind back to the almighty position of Microsoft almost two decades ago, when it ruled most of the computer screens, documents and emails we stared at all day. When the justice department challenged its monopoly power, Bill Gates, his executives and his lawyers dug in with every denial and shred of outrage they could muster. They lost their case but avoided the government’s attempts to break them up, after George W Bush “won” the disputed 2000 election. It didn’t much matter. Stripped of goodwill, with an eye on government regulation, Microsoft turned into the company it despised: IBM. Ubiquitous, boring and left behind. Only recently has Microsoft turned its reputation around, but it’s a far cry from its heyday in the late 1990s. It was a remarkable coincidence that Gates himself turned to philanthropy at the same time, rebuilding his reputation on a global scale among people who needed his extraordinary wealth far more than he did. All that has yet to play out for Mark Zuckerberg: the outraged denials, the public shaming, the polluted brand, the turn to philanthropy. Facebook is unlikely to collapse, but its decline has already begun. He is only just discovering what everyone else learns when they come into Trump’s vortex, willingly or not. There is no escape when your reputation is circling the drain alongside him.  Cambridge Analytica The Cambridge Analytica Files  Facebook Donald Trump US politics Social media comment            Most viewed    US World Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1066]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - How Blockchain could help us take back control of our privacy | Josh Hall | Opinion | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons More      How Blockchain could help us take back control of our privacy  Contact author @JoshAJHall Wed 21 Mar 2018 Last modified on Sat 24 Mar 2018         Facebook’s data centre in Prineville, Oregon. The company has suffered a major breach. Photograph: Facebook/EPA he Cambridge Analytica scandal poses some serious questions about the integrity of democracies in the information age. From Trump to Brexit , the dirty tricks apparently offered by CA’s top executives should cause concern everywhere that elections happen. But the episode is also worrying because of its specific focus: data. We create reams of data every day – every time we open a browser window and every time we make a contactless payment. We do this without thinking. The Cambridge Analytica news demonstrates the power that this data can have when we lose control of it. Does blockchain offer hype or hope? Read more Facebook isn’t the only huge data company to have suffered a major breach in recent years. In September it was revealed that 143 million Americans and 44 million Britons had sensitive information stolen from Equifax, the credit rating firm, including home addresses and social security numbers. The kicker in this case was that many of those affected had no idea the company was holding that information in the first place – such is the staggering growth of data creation and collection, and the lack of controls enjoyed by consumers over who gets to keep it. Clearly, it’s time for a radical rethink about the data we are producing and the processes governing its collection and maintenance. The EU has already gone some way to addressing these questions through the introduction of General Data Protection Regulation , a set of new rules dictating how businesses can handle personal information. But, despite their significant impact on collection practices in even the smallest businesses around Europe, these regulations still fall light years short of the comprehensive change in mindset needed to safeguard our privacy – and, potentially, the integrity of future elections. We need a comprehensive change in mindset to safeguard our privacy – and, potentially, the integrity of future elections Proliferation is the major risk for our personal data. Think about the number of times you’ve entered your address, your bank card security number, and your mother’s maiden name into a website. You wouldn’t dream of giving away that sort of information in a brick and mortar store, and yet we do it unthinkingly online. So how do we regain control of this sea of information? Blockchain technology is one of the potential solutions to this vast proliferation. Blockchains are distributed ledger systems – that is, information is stored not in a single, centralised database, but in a potentially infinite number of places. Blockchains store immutable records and they are distributed among every user, each of whom has their own private cryptographic key. This presents an opportunity. Rather than yielding our most sensitive information to every shop or platform we interact with online, we could instead store it in a decentralised ledger, free from a single point of failure. Connect that technology to existing payment systems and platforms, and combine it with biometric security features on our smartphones or tablets and we could then enjoy significantly more control over what information we share with whom – and say goodbye to passwords at the same time. But there’s a major problem with the application of blockchain technology in this way: privacy. If our data is stored everywhere, how can it be private? This is being tackled by researchers at MIT through their Enigma project, which is a protocol that sits on top of existing blockchains. Enigma promises “secret contracts”, as opposed to existing “smart contracts”, with nodes on the blockchain able to compute data without ever “seeing” it. The researchers say this will allow users to maintain control over personal data, particularly through preventing its monetisation or analysis by platforms. They also claim that it could unlock a new system of lending, in which prospective borrowers can establish their trustworthiness without having to give individual lenders access to their specific personal data. Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica  Name Alexander James Ashburner Nix Age 42 Education Eton, then Manchester University, where he  studied history of art Career Nix worked as a financial analyst in Mexico and the UK before joining SCL, a strategic communications firm, in 2003. From 2007 he took over the company’s elections division, and claims to have worked on  more than 40 campaigns  globally. Many of SCL’s projects are secret, so that may be a low estimate. He set up Cambridge Analytica to work in America, with investment from US hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer. He has been both hailed as a visionary – featuring on  Wired’s list  of “25 Geniuses who are creating the future of business” – and derided as a  snake oil salesman . Controversies Cambridge Analytica has come under scrutiny for its role in elections on both sides of the Atlantic, working on Brexit and Donald Trump’s election team. It is a key subject in two inquiries in the UK – by the Electoral Commission, into the firm’s possible role in the EU referendum, and the Information Commissioner’s Office, into data analytics for political purposes – and one in the US, as part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Trump-Russia collusion. The Observer revealed this week that the company had harvested millions of  Facebook  profiles of US voters, in one of the tech giant’s biggest ever data breaches, and used them to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. Emma Graham-Harrison Photograph: The Washington Post Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. Blockchain techniques are already being adopted at local and national levels. Estonia, which has emerged as one of the most forward-thinking, digital-first economies, has gradually moved all of its citizen data onto a distributed ledger system. Illinois is testing a number of blockchain-based systems, including a birth registry. And Singapore is considering moving towards a blockchain system to allow citizens to interact seamlessly with government services. There is significant work being done to shift the focus of blockchain technology away from pure currency speculation towards real world applications – especially around privacy and storage. Cambridge Analytica , Facebook, and Equifax have demonstrated without doubt that our management of data is broken. Blockchain could help us fix it. Josh Hall is a writer and editor based between London and Berlin. Cambridge Analytica Opinion  Facebook Privacy Social networking Internet comment            View all comments >  Order by newest oldest recommendations Show 25 50 100 All Threads collapsed expanded unthreaded Loading comments… Trouble loading? View more comments   Most viewed    The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1067]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - MoD granted 'List X' status to Cambridge Analytica parent company | UK news | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland More       MoD granted 'List X' status to Cambridge Analytica parent company  Wed 21 Mar 2018 Last modified on Sat 24 Mar 2018    This article is over 2 months old      MoD officials worked with SCL Group on Project Duco in 2014. Photograph: Graham Turner for the Guardian The chair of the Commons home affairs committee has called for a full investigation into the activities of Cambridge Analytica after it emerged that its parent company was granted provisional “List X” status by the Ministry of Defence until 2013, granting it access to secret documents. The Labour MP Yvette Cooper said there were serious concerns around SCL Group and its subsidiary Cambridge Analytica, which is being investigated by the information commissioner over a huge leak of Facebook data . SCL Group had a close working relationship with the MoD and was paid almost £200,000 for carrying out two separate projects. List X contractors are bound by strict rules over document security, and the MoD insists there was no recorded data breach. Cooper said: “Given the mounting concerns about Cambridge Analytica’s disregard for proper standards, particularly on information and data protection, we ought to know what the government contracts were with Cambridge Analytica or SCL and what access to information they had.” In 2014, MoD officials worked with SCL Group on “Project Duco” to analyse how people would interact with certain government messaging. The work on Project Duco is likely to raise concerns that government officials were aware of Cambridge Analytica and SCL’s operations, and intended to use them to promote government messages. “There are now growing concerns about whether there should be a wider investigation into their activities,” Cooper said. “There are concerns about the implications for democracy, about information being used in an illegitimate way and no one has the chance to counteract it, and that raises real problems.” Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video The SCL project was carried out by the MoD’s Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL), which is focused on maximising “the impact of science and technology for the defence and security of the UK”. According to a heavily redacted document released under freedom of information rules, Project Duco was part of the government’s “human and social influence” work, and SCL was paid £150,000. The company was also paid £40,000 for work carried out in 2010-11. The government team, which included psychologists and analysts, worked with SCL in 2014 to assess how “target audience analysis” could be used by the British government. Over the course of the project in 2014, MoD officials flagged concerns over SCL’s data management, saying there were “rudimentary security mechanisms” in place. As part of Project Duco, UK officials assessed SCL’s methods, which included analysing “psychological and anthropological principles” and assessing how these could contribute to the government’s strategic communications. Over the course of the project, SCL assessed behaviour patterns in young unmarried males and key factors affecting instability among this group. Shortly after the work with DSTL, SCL delivered training for Nato, which was subsequently passed on to Georgian, Ukrainian and Moldovan government officials. According to an audit, SCL was paid C$999,657 (£548,000) for work on target audience analysis, including an eight-week training course for Nato staff. Target audience analysis allows governments or companies to assess how to target individuals with a message to change behaviour. As part of Project Duco, the MoD was given “source background detail” by SCL, which included “analysis processes, data collection plans and sampling strategies”. Cambridge Analytica and SCL are under pressure over the use of Facebook data. A whistleblower has said Cambridge Analytica was provided with the disputed Facebook data in 2014. Target audience analysis (TAA) is a controversial approach to government communications that evolved during the battle for hearts and minds in Afghanistan. According to an assessment of the method by the Cdr Steve Tatham of the Royal Navy in 2015, it allows governments to “diagnose the exact groupings that exist within target populations”, leading to a ranking that “depends upon the degree of influence they may have in either promoting or mitigating constructive behaviour”. It then uses “psycho-social research parameters” in order to “determine how best to change that group’s behaviour”. According to Statham, the data “builds up a detailed understanding of current behaviour, values, attitudes, beliefs and norms, and examines everything from whether a group feels in control of its life to who they respect and what radio stations they listen to.” He added: “TAA can be undertaken covertly.” During the work with SCL, the MoD noted that “it was ascertained that some SCL staff are vetted and they have rudimentary security mechanisms in place (eg a locked cabinet).” The report stated: “It is not thought that they have the capability to handle any electronic material above unclassified not considered the secure dissemination of documents.” An MoD spokesman said: “We have no current relationship or contracts with SCL Group, which includes Cambridge Analytica. As such, the company has no access to any classified information.”  Cambridge Analytica The Cambridge Analytica Files  Ministry of Defence Yvette Cooper House of Commons news            Most viewed    UK UK politics Education Media Society Law Scotland Wales Northern Ireland    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						
"[w1068]  __ __  _ _ _ \ \ / /__ __ _ _ __ ___ | |__ (_)_ __(_)_ __ __ _ \ \ /\ / / _ \ / _` | '__/ _ \ | '_ \| | '__| | '_ \ / _` | \ V V / __/ | (_| | | | __/ | | | | | | | | | | | (_| | \_/\_/ \___| \__,_|_| \___| |_| |_|_|_| |_|_| |_|\__, |    |___/ Ever thought about joining us? https://workforus.theguardian.com/careers/digital-development/ - Mark Zuckerberg apologises for Facebook's 'mistakes' over Cambridge Analytica | Technology | The Guardian Skip to main content   US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition US edition  Subscribe Sign in My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out Search News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle  News US news World news Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money   Make a contribution Subscribe Sign in/up My account Comment activity Edit profile Email preferences Change password Sign out  US edition UK edition Australia edition International edition  Jobs The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Newsletters Inside the Guardian Digital archive Crosswords Facebook Twitter Jobs  US World Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness More       Mark Zuckerberg apologises for Facebook's 'mistakes' over Cambridge Analytica  in San Francisco @juliacarriew Email Thu 22 Mar 2018 First published on Wed 21 Mar 2018    This article is over 2 months old      Mark Zuckerberg: ‘Facebook made mistakes.’ Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Facebook is changing the way it shares data with third-party applications, Mark Zuckerberg announced on Wednesday in his first public statement since the Observer reported that the personal data of about 50 million Americans had been harvested and improperly shared with a political consultancy. The Facebook CEO broke his five-day silence on the scandal that has enveloped his company this week in a Facebook post acknowledging that the policies that allowed the misuse of data were “a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it”. Why have we given up our privacy to Facebook and other sites so willingly? Read more “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” Zuckerberg wrote. He noted that the company has already changed some of the rules that enabled the breach, but added: “We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.”   Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, shared Zuckerberg’s post and added her own comment : “We know that this was a major violation of people’s trust, and I deeply regret that we didn’t do enough to deal with it.” Zuckerberg also spoke to a handful of media outlets on Wednesday, including a televised interview with CNN in which he apologized for the “breach of trust”, saying: “I’m really sorry that this happened.” In similar conversations with the New York Times , Wired and the tech website Recode , Zuckerberg expressed qualified openness to testifying before Congress and said that he was not entirely opposed to Facebook being subject to more regulations. Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video The crisis stems from Facebook policies that allowed third-party app developers to extract personal data about users and their friends from 2007 to 2014. Facebook greatly reduced the amount of data that was available to third parties in 2014, but not before a Cambridge University researcher named Aleksandr Kogan had used an app to extract the information of more than 50 million people, and then transferred it to Cambridge Analytica for commercial and political use. On Saturday, Facebook’s deputy general counsel, Paul Grewal, appeared to defend the lax policies that allowed data harvesting from unwitting friends, writing in a statement : “Aleksandr Kogan requested and gained access to information from users who chose to sign up to his app, and everyone involved gave their consent.” But after five days of outrage from the public, and calls for investigations and regulation from lawmakers in the US and UK, the company appears to be acknowledging that blaming users for not understanding its byzantine terms of service will not suffice. How the story unfolded  In December 2016, while researching the US presidential election, Carole Cadwalladr came across data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, whose secretive manner and chequered track record belied its bland, academic-sounding name. Her initial investigations uncovered the role of US billionaire Robert Mercer in the US election campaign: his strategic “war” on mainstream media and his political campaign funding, some apparently linked to Brexit. She found the first indications that Cambridge Analytica might have used data processing methods that breached the Data Protection Act. That article prompted Britain’s Electoral Commission and the Information Commissioner’s Office to launch investigations whose remits include Cambridge Analytica’s use of data and its possible links to the EU referendum. These investigations are continuing, as is a wider ICO inquiry into the use of data in politics. While chasing the details and ramifications of complex manipulation of both data and funding law, Cadwalladr came under increasing attacks, both online and professionally, from key players. The Leave.EU campaign tweeted a doctored video that showed her being violently assaulted, and the Russian embassy wrote to the Observer to complain that her reporting was a “textbook example of bad journalism”. But the growing profile of her reports also gave whistleblowers confidence that they could trust her to not only understand their stories, but retell them clearly for a wide audience. Her network of sources and contacts grew to include not only former employees who regretted their work but academics, lawyers and others concerned about the impact on democracy of tactics employed by Cambridge Analytica and associates. Cambridge Analytica is now the subject of special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s probing of the company’s role in Donald Trump’s presidential election campaign. Investigations in the UK remain live. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. The company will investigate apps that had access to “large amounts of information” before the 2014 changes, Zuckerberg said, and audit any apps that show “suspicious activity”. A Facebook representative declined to share how Facebook was defining “large amounts of information” or how many apps would be scrutinized. Zuckerberg said in his interviews that the number of apps was in the “thousands”. The company will also inform those whose data was “misused”, including people who were directly affected by the Kogan data operation. An online petition calling for just such disclosure for people included in Kogan’s data set had garnered more than 15,000 signatures since the weekend. Facebook also promised to further restrict the amount of data third-party developers can access when users log in to their sites with their Facebook profile, turn off data sharing for apps that have not been used for three months, and move the tool that allows users to restrict the data they share from the Settings menu to the News Feed. David Carroll, a US design professor who is challenging Cambridge Analytica through the UK courts to access his data profile harvested from Facebook, called the reforms “inadequate”. “Users should be notified, and not have to know to go and find out,” he told the Guardian by email. Zuckerberg’s statement notably did not offer any explanation for why Facebook did not make any effort to inform affected users when Guardian reporters first told the company of the data misuse in December 2015. He did address the question in his press interviews, acknowledging to CNN that it was “a mistake” to rely on Kogan and Cambridge Analytica’s certifications that they had destroyed the data. “I don’t know about you, but I’m used to when people legally certify that they’re going to do something, that they do it,” he said. “We need to make sure that we don’t make that mistake ever again.” “With Mark Zuckerberg’s response, they are trying to convey that they are taking this seriously, but they are reacting to furore rather than facts,” said Jeff Hauser of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. “The facts are not new to them.” Jonathan Albright, a research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism, said that while he welcomed Zuckerberg’s explanation of how Cambridge Analytica gained access to the data in question, he was disappointed that the CEO did not address why Facebook enabled so much third-party access to its users’ personal information for so many years. “This problem is part of Facebook and cannot be split off as an unfortunate instance of misuse,” Albright said. “It was standard practice and encouraged. Facebook was literally racing towards building tools that opened their users’ data to marketing partners and new business verticals. So this is something that’s inherent to the culture and design of the company.” Olivia Solon and Edward Helmore contributed reporting.  Facebook The Cambridge Analytica Files  Cambridge Analytica Social networking news            Most viewed    US World Environment Soccer US politics Business Tech Science Homelessness    jobs make a contribution subscribe guardian labs about us work for us contact us advertise with us help terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop complaints & corrections all topics all contributors Facebook Twitter digital newspaper archive © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.     "																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																						