[w540]     WhatsApp co-founder wants everyone to delete Facebook, here’s why As Facebook struggles to grapple with one its largest data breaches, Facebook-owned WhatsApp’s co-founder Brian Acton is asking people to delete Facebook. Taking to Twitter, Brian wrote, "It is time. #deletefacebook.” It is time. #deletefacebook 	— Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 Facebook bought instant messaging platform WhatsApp in 2014 for $16 billion. Brian quit WhatsApp earlier this year to start his own foundation – the Signal Foundation. WhatsApp’s other co-founder Jan Koum continues to lead the company. Facebook has been under the scanner over the past week after it came to light that Cambridge Analytica, a political data analytics company accessed data of over 50 million users of the social media platform without their permission. Cambridge Analytica is largely funded by Donald Trump supporter Robert Mercer, who donated mney for his election campaign. The firm is said to have used this data to target political ads on Facebook based on each user’s likes and interests. The data was accessed by Cambridge Analytica from the creator of a quiz taken by 270,000 Facebook users. That creator then passed on the data to Cambridge Analytica, which is against Facebook’s policy. This points to a major loophole in Facebook’s API, which allows third-party developers to collect data not just from the users of the Facebook app, but also from that user’s friends network on the social media platform. However, Facebook’s policy states that such data cannot be marketed or sold, a rule that was violated by Cambridge Analytica Facebook knew about this data leak back in 2015, but didn’t make the information public. Interestingly, it has also emerged that private information of  hundreds of millions of Facebook users could have been similarly harvested by companies that exploited the same terms. According to Sandy Parakilas , an ex-employee of Facebook who was the platform operations manager responsible for policing data breaches by third-party software developers between 2011 and 2012, he had previously warned senior executives that its ‘lax approach’ towards protected data posed serious risks of data breach. Sandy told Guadian that Facebook did not use its enforcement mechanisms or audit external developers to ensure data was not being misused. He says that Facebook has absolutely no control over the data once it left Facebook’s servers and there was no insight into what was going on. He further claimed that Facebook felt like it was better not to know what happened with the data as it was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening.  

[w541]   Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak, Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. The company’s board said CEO Alexander Nix would remain suspended pending a “full, independent investigation” into his involvement in what he was filmed describing as entrapping politicians. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. An undercover reporter for Britain’s Channel 4 News secretly filmed the CEO, Alexander Nix, offering shadowy services to entrap politicians, as well as boasting about using online propaganda tools, including so-called psychographic modeling techniques, to help Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. The news outlet’s monthslong, multipart investigation into the company is airing this week. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg “Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm, and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” the board wrote in a statement on Tuesday. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg The undercover reporter, posing as a fixer for a wealthy client working to elect politicians in Sri Lanka, filmed Nix and his colleagues over four meetings from November to January. Facebook recently suspended Cambridge Analytica over an incident involving its harvesting of data from 50 million profiles. Cambridge Analytica – founded by Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist, and Robert Mercer, a top GOP donor who has sunk at least $15 million into the company – is said to have used personal data gleaned from tens of millions of profiles to predict the behavior of individual American voters. The company’s board said it would launch an internal investigation into allegations of Nix’s wrongdoing and make the conclusions public. In the meantime, Alexander Tayler, the company’s chief data officer, will serve as the acting CEO. In one exchange filmed by the undercover Channel 4 News reporter, Nix said he had met Trump “many times” and described what the firm undertook for his campaign. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting – we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy,” Nix said. In another conversation, Tayler argued that the firm’s work helped Trump emerge victorious. “When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes but won the Electoral College vote, that’s down to the data and the research,” he said. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told Channel 4 News: “CA has never claimed it won the election for President Trump. This is patently absurd.” 


[w542]

[w543]  

[w544] Facebook faces substantial business risks from new European Union privacy rules set to take effect in May, a looming reality that came into stark relief over the weekend with revelations that a controversial political consulting firm had improperly obtained personal data on 50 million Facebook users. Privacy experts said the disclosure that a researcher had sold Facebook data collected via a personality quiz to the consulting firm Cambridge Analytica is a prime example of the kinds of practices that the new General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, is supposed to prevent or punish. The danger faced by Facebook going forward is two-fold: Complying with the rules means letting European users opt out of the highly targeted online ads that have made Facebook a money machine. Violating GDPR mandates could subject the California company to fines of up to 4 per cent of annual revenues. Had the Cambridge Analytica incident happened after GDPR becomes law on May 25, it "would have cost Facebook 4 per cent of their global revenue", said Austrian privacy campaigner and Facebook critic Max Schrems.  Because a UK company was involved and because at least some of the people whose data was misused were almost certainly European, GDPR would have applied.  Views Could Star Wars tech become reality? Jun 01, 2018 Mr Schrems first raised concerns in 2011 about how easy it would be for third-party apps to harvest data from the unwitting friends of Facebook users. Mr Schrems has founded a non-profit, called None Of Your Business, that is hiring lawyers and exploring avenues for "strategic litigation" over GDPR privacy violations. "The fact of the matter is that Facebook lost control of the data and wasn't adequately monitoring what third-parties were doing," said Mr Scott Vernick, a partner and an expert in privacy and data security at the Philadelphia law firm Fox Rothschild. INADEQUATE MONITORING Mr Vernick said the maximum GDPR fine could come into play in an incident like this because of the number of users affected and what appears to have been inadequate monitoring of third-party data practices. Facebook said it changed its policies in 2014 to "to give much less data, especially about friends," Facebook Vice-President Andrew Bosworth said in a post on Monday. "We conduct a robust review to identify potential policy violations and to assess whether the app has a legitimate use for the data," the company said on Monday. "We actually reject a significant number of apps through this process." Compliance with GDPR rules could cost Facebook a significant amount of money. Deutsche Bank analysts in January estimated that Facebook's overall revenue could be lowered by 4 per cent in a scenario in which 30 per cent of EU users opt out of targeted ads, reducing the effectiveness and likely price of ads shown by 50 per cent. The EU represents 24 per cent of Facebook's ad revenue, so multiplying those figures, the bank said the regulations could have a 4 percent impact on overall Facebook revenue. A December 2017 survey found that only 21 per cent of European consumers know what GDPR is. But after the regulation was explained, 82 per cent of respondents said they plan to exercise their new rights, according to the survey of 7,000 Europeans conducted by Pegasystems Inc, which makes sales and marketing software. Another challenge for social networks are GDPR provisions mandating how companies must obtain permissions. The regulation demands that requests for consent be presented "in an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language." In other words, the days of extensive "terms of service"agreements written in small text will no longer pass muster in Europe, numerous data privacy lawyers told Reuters. In practice, social network users may find themselves seeing more "permissions screens" and being asked to check boxes every time a social network rolls out a new feature. That could depress usage, Facebook Chief Financial Officer David Wehner said at an investor conference last month. "Whenever you walk people through permission screens, there's some potential that people decide they're not going to use the product," Wehner said. "We don't think it will be big, but there could be some implication there." 

[w545]   Facebook user data scandal erases US$50 billion from market cap  Shares of Facebook continued their slide Tuesday as investors feared regulatory repercussions after revelations about the company's mishandling of data on 50 million users. Facebook's stock closed down 2.6 per cent Tuesday, following a 6.8 per cent drop Monday. The decline has wiped out around US$49 billion (S$64.6 billion) of the company's market value since last Friday's closing price, with its market cap currently at US$488.5 billion. Shares recovered from a steeper drop earlier Tuesday, when they fell as much as 6.1 per cent.  /.block Facebook's woes also dragged down Twitter, whose share price tumbled 10.4 per cent Tuesday amid concerns it, too, could be subjected to new government regulations. Shares of Snap, parent company of Snapchat, closed down 2.6 per cent.  /.block The Wall Street selloff comes after reports that Facebook user data was improperly obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm used by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Last Friday, Facebook announced that it kicked Cambridge Analytica and its parent company off the platform, claiming the researcher who provided the data to them violated Facebook's policies. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have denied that the user data was used as part of the firm's work for the Trump campaign. 

[w546]

[w547] 

[w548] As It Happens: Facebook data scandal 

[w549] 

[w550] British lawmakers invite Facebook’s Zuckerberg to explain data policy File: Mark Zuckerberg told to "stop hiding behind his Facebook Page" after reports of data breach. 					 											 A cross-party committee of British lawmakers has asked Facebook Head, Mark Zuckerberg, to explain his firm’s “catastrophic failure of process” on the security of personal data. Damian Collins, who heads Culture, Media and Sports Committee, said he had repeatedly asked Facebook how companies acquired and held on to user data from their site , and particularly if data had been taken without their consent. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk and have been misleading to the committee,’’ Collins, a lawmaker from Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party, said in an open letter to Zuckerberg.   Facebook is still falling after reports of a data breach. It's now down more than 7% https://t.co/YIyijQWNim pic.twitter.com/xt9ln9X27U 	— Bloomberg (@business) March 19, 2018 The committee from the Commons, parliament’s elected lower house, is examining the role of Facebook as part of an inquiry into the role of “fake news” in British politics. In a related move, Information Commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said late Monday that her office was “seeking a warrant to obtain information and access to systems and evidence’’ from Cambridge Analytica (CA). READ:  Facebook rocked by new data breach scandal The CA has been accused of using information from potentially tens of millions of Facebook users without their consent. But, opposition lawmakers said Denham’s advance notice of the warrant could allow the firm to delete evidence of alleged misuse of Facebook user data in U.S. elections. “Giving CA and Facebook a warning to delete files, servers and evidence?’’ opposition Labour lawmaker, David Lammy, wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. Lammy said governments must work together to regulate how internet companies use personal data, because “individual nation-states will struggle to take on transnational tech empires like Facebook”. Denham called for “full understanding of the facts, data flows and data uses,’’ adding that Facebook had agreed to stand down its search of CA’s premises because such search would potentially compromise regulatory investigation. British investigators will examine the use of personal data for political campaigns, including “the acquisition and use of Facebook data by SCL, Doctor Kogan and Cambridge Analytica,” she said.   “Facebook’s only doing something now because I am coming out and speaking out.” Wylie says he is frustrated with the social media company’s response to the data breach. https://t.co/GwcGIMTgWF pic.twitter.com/UW0IQniw2X 	— CNN International (@cnni) March 20, 2018 CA, which has been linked to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, faced a new scandal late Monday after top executives were caught on video apparently bragging about using bribes and entrapment to influence elections. In an undercover sting operation by British broadcaster, Channel 4, Chief Executive, Alexander Nix, appeared to suggest the firm was willing to use, or had already used, “honey traps.” The traps were said to have planted false reports online, hiring hidden subcontractors and setting up fake institutions and websites to gather data. “Now we need to find out if Cambridge Analytica and leaks from Facebook played a key role in Brexit referendum,” Liberal Democrat leader, Vince Cable, said on Twitter on Tuesday. The company rejected allegations made in the “highly misleading” broadcast of exchanges between the CA executives and an undercover reporter posing as a Sri Lankan businessman. “The report is edited and scripted to grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how the company conducts its business,” CA said. The second part of the Channel 4 documentary, scheduled to air late Tuesday, will reportedly feature CA executives boasting about how they helped Trump win the election. 								Facebook's Zuckerberg asked to give evidence on data row 			  A British parliamentary committee requested the Facebook chief to appear before it to explain claims that millions of users' data was harvested.  									Facebook rocked by new data breach scandal 			  Calls for investigations came on both sides of the Atlantic after Facebook responded to the explosive reports of misuse of its data by suspending the account of Cambridge Analytica  									Trump consultant harvested data from 50m Facebook users: reports 			  The profiles apparently represented nearly a quarter of potential US voters in 2014.   


[w551] Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Amid Data Misuse Scandal –  Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Amid Data Misuse Scandal  In this file photo taken on February 27, 2018 A video grab from footage broadcast by the UK Parliament’s Parliamentary Recording Unit (PRU) on February 27, 2018 shows Chief Executive, Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, giving evidence to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee of members of parliament on the subject of fake news at the Houses of Parliament in London on February 27, 2018. HO / PRU / AFP   http://hotel.africa      https://hotels.ng     http://fly.africa Cambridge Analytica, a British communications firm hired by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, said Tuesday it had suspended CEO Alexander Nix “pending a full, independent investigation”. The move follows allegations the company harvested data on 50 million Facebook users to influence the US presidential election and the emergence of undercover recordings of Nix offering so-called dirty tricks services to potential clients against political rivals.   The post Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Amid Data Misuse Scandal appeared first on Channels Television 

[w552] A Facebook shareholder launched a lawsuit against the social network over the Cambridge Analytica scandal 	A Facebook shareholder launched a lawsuit against the social network over the Cambridge Analytica scandal  				Facebook should have told investors about the scandal, says an investor. A Facebook shareholder is suing the company for allegedly misleading investors. The suit is seeking class action status. The investor claims that since Facebook did not inform shareholders about the Cambridge Analytica data scandal, the company omitted facts that have led to a decline in Facebook&apos;s value. Facebook has lost about $50 billion in market value since the scandal broke on Saturday. A Facebook shareholder is suing the social media giant for allegedly misleading investors in the Cambridge Analytica affair that&apos;s currently rocking the social network. Fan Yuan, who owns Facebook stock, filed a lawsuit Tuesday in the District Court of Northern California, located in San Francisco, on behalf of Facebook shareholders. Gizmodo first reported the lawsuit, which is seeking class action status. You can read the full complaint here . On Friday, it was revealed The lawsuit claims that since Facebook knew about the issue for two years and failed to say anything publicly, it&apos;s at fault for not providing enough information to its investors — and, because of that, Facebook is liable for damages, it says. The Federal Trade Commission is looking to investigate the incident. And several lawmakers are increasing the pressure on CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who has been silent so far, to testify on the matter before Congress. 

[w553] Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak 	Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak  The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. The company&apos;s board said CEO Alexander Nix would remain suspended pending a "full, independent investigation" into his involvement in what he was filmed describing as entrapping politicians. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. An undercover reporter for Britain&apos;s Channel 4 News secretly filmed the CEO, Alexander Nix, offering shadowy services to entrap politicians, as well as boasting about using online propaganda tools, including so-called psychographic modeling techniques, to help Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. The news outlet&apos;s monthslong, multipart investigation into the company is airing this week. "Mr. Nix&apos;s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm, and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation," the board wrote in a statement on Tuesday. The undercover reporter, posing as a fixer for a wealthy client working to elect politicians in Sri Lanka, filmed Nix and his colleagues over four meetings from November to January. Facebook recently suspended Cambridge Analytica over an incident involving its harvesting of data from 50 million profiles. Cambridge Analytica — founded by Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist, and Robert Mercer, a top GOP donor who has sunk at least $15 million into the company — is said to have used personal data gleaned from tens of millions of profiles to predict the behavior of individual American voters. The company&apos;s board said it would launch an internal investigation into allegations of Nix&apos;s wrongdoing and make the conclusions public. In the meantime, Alexander Tayler, the company&apos;s chief data officer, will serve as the acting CEO. In one exchange filmed by the undercover Channel 4 News reporter, Nix said he had met Trump "many times" and described what the firm undertook for his campaign. "We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting — we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy," Nix said. In another conversation, Tayler argued that the firm&apos;s work helped Trump emerge victorious. "When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes but won the Electoral College vote, that&apos;s down to the data and the research," he said. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told Channel 4 News: "CA has never claimed it won the election for President Trump. This is patently absurd." 
[w554] 

[w555]     A British election consultancy firm preyed on Kenyans' fear of ethnic violence and joblessness to help President Uhuru Kenyatta win the August 2017 poll. According to a video secretly recorded and broadcast by Britain’s Channel 4 News on Monday, Cambridge Analytica (CA), a data analytics firm, deployed psychological manipulation to influence voters in both the 2013 and 2017 presidential elections. The company has denied the claims. The news channel said it mounted a sting operation in which it secretly recorded top Cambridge Analytica executives saying they could use bribes, former spies, and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians around the world. In Kenya, Cambridge Analytica interviewed 47,000 people to assess Kenyans' fears, then used the information to engineer an online media onslaught against Uhuru's opponents. The firm worked with a local research partner to deliver results for Uhuru in 2013 and then replicated the strategy in the 2017 polls. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Political research Explaining how it worked in Kenya, the officials said that ahead of the 2013 presidential election, the firm designed and implemented the largest political research project in East Africa. It sampled and interviewed 47,000 people in a three-month nationwide data collection exercise. From this process, it drafted what it described as an effective campaign strategy based on the electorate’s need for jobs and fear of tribal violence. “The 2013 Kenyan election was the first national election to be held after the electoral violence of 2008,” Cambridge Analytica said in a brief.   “It was also the first election held under Kenya’s new Constitution, which redrew Kenya’s constituency boundaries and brought in new electoral requirements,” said the statement, published on its website. Cambridge Analytica said it was contracted by a leading Kenyan political party to conduct the large-scale research project. “The aim was to provide the party with a comprehensive plan to shape its election strategy,” the firm said. It worked with a local research partner to train a team of enumerators to ensure regional variations in language and social customs were respected during data collection. “Having designed the research methodology and sampling approach, and finalised the questionnaire, CA piloted the survey to a small sample of respondents. This determined that our research tool was fit for use across a national research sample," the firm stated. Following the data analysis, the firm said the research gave Uhuru's campaign a profile of the Kenyan electorate, including key national and local political issues, levels of trust in key politicians, voting behaviour and intentions, and preferred information channels. Cambridge Analytica said its analysis also segmented the country's population into key target audiences. Under-utilised youth “Of the audiences identified, our work highlighted that the youth cohort were an under-utilised party asset that could be highly influential if mobilised,” the brief said. To connect with this audience, CA’s communications and strategy team devised an online social media campaign to generate a hugely active online following.  A global privacy protection organisation, Privacy International, has suggested that the data analytics firm was paid Sh600 million ($6 million) for three months work in the 2017 election. In an expose run by Channel 4 this week, Mark Turnbull, a managing director for Cambridge Analytica, admitted that his firm secretly stage-managed Uhuru's election.   “I think we wrote all the speeches and we staged the whole thing - so just about every element of this candidate,” Turnbull said. The CA executive boasts that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL), have worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India, and Argentina. “It’s no good fighting an election campaigns on facts… because actually it’s all about emotion,” the executive is heard saying in the clip. Last year, reports emerged linking the firm to a toxic online campaign targeting National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga titled Stop Raila Save Kenya…….The Future of Kenya is in Your Hands. Leaked memo Earlier, a leaked memo spoke of plans to run an on-line campaign to portray NASA as violent. The memo also suggested emotional manipulation of Jubilee Party supporters to ensure they turned up to vote. CA dismissed the memo as a fabrication. Yesterday National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale dismissed the claims of the firm's involvement in the 2013 and 2017 elections as 'hogwash' and 'lacking substance'.  “Those claims are just hogwash. We went out to every village and town in this country, we sold our agenda of development, we merged our parties and campaigned on the platform of unity and development, the people of Kenya gave us victory,” Mr Duale said. Duale argued that most voters did not rely on the internet and social media enough to make political decisions during elections. “Less than 4 per cent have access to the internet. The so-called Cambridge Analytical had no bearing on our victory. We campaigned hard and won fair and square,” he said. Jubilee's secretary general, Raphael Tuju, termed the reports as 'speculation', saying the party did not wish to comment further. 

[w556] Murathe and Tuju differ on hire of British propaganda firm  Kenya 								Jubilee party bosses clash over hiring of feared propaganda company 	Tough times for Jubilee President Uhuru Kenyatta (right) with his deputy William Ruto (PSCU)   Jubilee party bosses have issued clashing responses over the role of the disgraced propaganda company Cambridge Analytica in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaigns. A British broadcasting Company (Channel 4) on Monday released an investigative documentary where Cambridge Analytica executives were caught on camera admitting they had staged Kenyatta’s campaigns in 2013 and in 2017. In response to the expose, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju denied that the party had sought any services from the controversial firm, terming the claims as far-fetched.   “ These things, the whole thing with Cambridge Analytica, don’t you think it is just far-fetched? It is very far-fetched ,” Tuju was quoted by the Nation. The Secretary General’s position was in sharp contradiction to a confession made by Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe who stated that the ruling coalition had indirectly contracted Cambridge Analytical for branding services . “ They were basically branding and all that but not directly ,” Murathe stated in an interview with Reuters . The branding services were provided by SCL which is an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica.   On his part, Cambridge Analytica Mark Turnbull claimed to have done a lot more than branding. " Kenyatta campaign which we ran in 2013 and 2017…We have rebranded the entire party twice, written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys – huge amounts of research, analyses, (and) messaging .” “ Then we’d write all the speeches and we’d stage the whole thing; so just every element of his (Kenyatta) campaign ," Turnbull told an undercover reporter. Turnbull and another official were also caught on tape confessing that they use prostitutes, spies and fake news to help their clients win elections. 

[w557] NASA speaks after Cambridge Analytica admits working for Uhuru  								What NASA want US & UK to do after Cambridge Analytica confirmed working for Uhuru  				Here are the full details NASA leader Raila Odinga and CEO Norman Magaya (Facebook)   NASA CEO Norman Magaya is now pleading with the US and UK Governments to open a full investigation against Data Company Cambridge Analytica after an explosive  exposé  disclosed how it helped President Uhuru Kenyatta during the 2017 General Election. In an undercover investigation titled: Cambridge Analytica Uncovered: Secret filming reveals election tricks , the firm’s top bosses admit to being the key drivers of Mr. Kenyatta’s campaigns . Alex Taylor, Cambridge’s Chief Data Officer, and Managing Director Mark Turnbull were caught on tape detailing the role they played in Kenya’s elections. Cambridge Analytica Uncovered: Secret filming reveals election tricks (Facebook)   Mr. Turnbull disclosed that they entered into a contract with President Kenyatta party in 2013 and continued during 2017 election when he vied for a second term. According to the Managing Director,  Cambridge single-handedly conducted Mr. Kenyatta’s campaigns by first re-branding the party twice. “We ran the Kenyatta campaign in 2013 and 2017. We have re-branded the entire party twice,”  Turnbull said. Mr. Turnbull stated that Cambridge was also involved in writing Jubilee’s manifesto, conducting surveys, preparing Mr. Kenyatta’s speeches among other duties. “We have written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50, 000 surveys. Huge amounts of research, analysis, messaging. Then we would write all the speeches and we would stage the whole thing so just about every element of his campaign,”  Turnbull said. President Uhuru Kenyatta (right) and Deputy President William Ruto (left) (Facebook)   The firm is accused of using damaging information about politicians to push certain agenda to the electorates. The main purpose is to play with the citizenry’s emotions by either creating fear or wooing undecided voters towards a candidate. “They will find all the skeletons in his closet quietly, discreetly and give you report,”  Turnbull reveals how Cambridge works with spies to gain information. Speaking to the BBC, Mr. Magaya castigated the Data firm claiming that it had a hand in subverting the people’s will in Kenya. NASA CEO Norman Magaya (Facebook)   "This was a criminal enterprise which clearly wanted to subvert the will of the people— through manipulation, through propaganda,"  he was quoted by the BBC .  The NASA CEO mentioned that Cambridge Analytica must be held liable for spreading toxic propaganda during the election period. "There must be criminal culpability," Magaya said. Last year, Kenyans on Facebook were bombarded with alarming information concerning NASA leader Raila Odinga who was the main rival of Mr. Kenyatta. Countless videos were posted online describing how dangerous a man Raila was if elected to be the President of Kenya. The video portrayed the former Prime Minister as a leader who will drag Kenya into poverty, violence and dictator regime. However, Cambridge denied any involvement in the production or publication of such videos.

[w558] 

[w561]  Facebook Besieged By Wall Street, Washington And Europe  Facebook Inc.’s grim week is getting grimmer. The company on Tuesday was beset on two continents by governments suddenly focused on data security and investors unliked its stock to the point that it lost $60 billion in value. The Menlo Park, California, company, whose social network is a ubiquitous venue for social and political life, is drawing the unaccustomed unwelcome attention after the disclosure that it released the personal data of 50 million users to an analytics firm that helped elect President Donald Trump. The company, Cambridge Analytica, has been implicated in dirty tricks in elections around the globe. Facebook has struggled to respond to the fast-moving imbroglio, and even Facebook workers have been in the dark. The company held a staff meeting Tuesday to address their questions about what Facebook knew and when. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg plans to address employees on Friday at a previously scheduled all-hands meeting. For those not privy to the internal meetings, here are the latest developments: Parliaments Request Mr. Zuckerberg’s Presence CEO Zuckerberg may have to do a tour of European parliaments to appease lawmakers. Damian Collins, head of a U.K. parliament committee investigating the impact of social media on recent elections, invited Zuckerberg to answer for a “catastrophic failure of process.” Shortly thereafter an invitation followed from European Parliament President Antonio Tajani. Separately, EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said she also plans to discuss the matter with Facebook during a visit in the U.S. this week while Italian telecommunications regulator AGCOM requested Facebook to provide information on data use. Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg haven’t yet spoken publicly about the data leak, despite the global firestorm. When Zuckerberg addresses staff on Friday, he’s certain to face questions about the controversy. U.S. Regulators Would Like a Word The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is looking into whether Facebook broke the terms of a 2011 consent decree. The FTC is the lead agency for enforcing companies’ adherence to their own privacy policies and could fine the company if it finds Facebook violated the agreement. Facebook said it would conduct staff-level briefings of six congressional committees Tuesday and Wednesday. That includes House and Senate judiciary committees, as well as the commerce and intelligence panels of both chambers. Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that that it would "be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors." The attorneys general of New York and Massachusetts sent demand letters to the company, the first step in a joint investigation. A loss as big as a car (company) Facebook’s stock price fell as much as 6.2 percent in New York before closing 2.6 percent lower. The stock has slumped more than 9 percent since Friday’s close, giving up about $50 billion in market capitalization . That’s almost as much as the total value of Tesla Inc. The world’s largest social media network was sued in San Francisco federal court Tuesday by shareholders in a class action who said they suffered losses after the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users. Free fall aside, Wall Street analysts remain upbeat . Buy recommendations continue to roll in and price targets reflect a potential return of 35 percent. Out of the 43 analysts who recommend buying Facebook shares, not one has downgraded the stock over the crisis. However, many acknowledge that bad publicity could keep the stock under pressure.   Cambridge Analytica The political consulting company whose own troubles engendered Facebook’s was also rocked Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica’s board suspended CEO Alexander Nix after he was shown on video discussing entrapping politicians with bribes and prostitutes and spreading disinformation. Britain’s Channel 4 News aired the third part of an undercover investigation that showed Nix bragging of running research, data and targeting for the Trump campaign and deriding U.S. lawmakers. He also said the company used an email server to communicate with clients and eliminate evidence of contact. Kenya’s opposition party demanded a probe after Channel 4’s disclosure that Cambridge Analytica spread propaganda amid election-related violence that left 92 people dead. Signing Out Facebook users don’t have to look far for instructions on how to extricate themselves or their data: Across the Twitterverse and blogospheres, outraged users have said they’re deleting their accounts and how-to instructions are making the rounds. Tech sites have published guides on how to deactivate or control carefully curated social media accounts. The brushfire comes at an inauspicious moment. Daily active user growth in the U.S. and Canada declined from 185 million in the third quarter to 184 million in the period, the company reported last quarter. That signals the first loss on a quarter-over-quarter basis in the company’s history.    

[w562]British lawmakers asks Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg to clarify data breach

[w563]  Facebook Sued By Investors Over Voter-Profile Harvesting  Facebook Inc.’s failure to safeguard privacy was blamed in an investor lawsuit for a slump in its share price that followed the revelation user data was harvested without permission by a research firm connected to U.S. President Donald Trump. The world’s largest social media network was sued in San Francisco federal court on Tuesday by shareholders in a class action who said they suffered losses after the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based firm that aided Trump, improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users. Facebook fell as much as 5.2 percent to $175.41 Monday in New York, wiping out all of the year’s gains so far. It was the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 12. The stock dropped another 2.6 percent Tuesday to close at $168.15, after Bloomberg reported that the company is under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission, citing a person familiar with the matter. The suit would represent people who bought shares of Facebook from Feb. 3, 2017, when Facebook filed its annual report and cited security breaches and improper access to user data, through March 19, two days after a New York Times report revealed how data from Cambridge Analytica obtained through Facebook was used without “proper disclosures or permission.” The stock has tumbled more than 9 percent this week. “We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” said Paul Grewal, deputy general counsel at Facebook. “We will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” he said in a statement.   ‘Potential Culpability’ Throughout that period, “defendants made false or misleading statements and failed to disclose that Facebook violated its own data privacy policies by allowing third parties access to personal data of millions of Facebook users without their consent,” according to the complaint. Darren Robbins, a securities class action lawyer who isn’t involved in the case, called the Cambridge Analytics case “troubling” for Facebook and the country overall. “They have potential culpability in a number of areas,” Robbins said about the social network by phone before the lawsuit was filed. “Whether liability from users, government regulators or investors follows, there are implications for our society given the unique position Facebook occupies in the daily lives of Americans.” Investors may be able to sue Facebook successfully if they can show the company induced them to invest based in part on false, misleading or incomplete information regarding practices that might have averted the user privacy issues, Robbins said. “That is dependent upon the representations made about the types of actions Facebook has taken to protect this information,” he said. “If the representations made publicly are inconsistent with what actually occurred, is there potential liability? The answer is yes.” Facebook’s Long History of Resolving Privacy Claims on the Cheap News of the improper data collection is the latest in a string of discomforting revelations about the ways in which the network may have been used to affect the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Facebook is under fire over the proliferation of “fake news” on its site and Russian actors leveraging the platform for propaganda. The shares dropped Monday amid an outcry over the data collection, which occurred with a U.K. professor claiming to be gathering information for "academic" purposes. Instead, it was used to develop techniques deployed by the Trump campaign, in a venture backed by wealthy Republican donor Robert Mercer. Personality Quiz Facebook said on Friday that the professor, Aleksandr Kogan, asked people to take a personality quiz that he claimed was for academic purposes. A total of 270,000 signed up for the quiz, and in doing so permitted Kogan to access data for both those individuals and their friends, exposing profiles of 50 million people, according to the New York Times. “The claim that this is a data breach is completely false,” Grewal, the deputy general counsel, wrote in a March 17 post. “People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated and passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.” Although the quiz didn’t violate Facebook’s rules at the time, Kogan breached them by passing that data along to Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said. The company discovered the misuse in 2015 and shut off the professor’s access and asked the research company to certify that it had deleted the data at issue. The social network said Friday it learned the information wasn’t erased, and Cambridge Analytica denied on Saturday that it still had access to the data. The research firm used the data to create tools and techniques that were put to use in the 2016 election campaign, according to the New York Times. The social network is also battling privacy claims from consumers in San Francisco federal court over the use of biometric data, and last month it agreed to pay $35 million to settle claims that its officers and directors overstated prospects for earnings and growth in the mobile market ahead of its 2012 initial public offering. The company didn’t admit to any wrongdoing. Politicians on both sides of the Atlantic have called on Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to explain. Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey opened a civil probe and Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen has issued a written inquiry to Facebook to answer questions about the matter. European Union Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova plans to meet with Facebook officials in Washington on March 21. She called the data misuse “horrifying, if confirmed” and “not acceptable.” The case is Yuan v. Facebook Inc., 3:18-cv-01725, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).   

[w564]  Facebook Is Said to Agree to Brief House Panel on Misuse of Data  Facebook Inc. officials have tentatively agreed to brief House Judiciary Committee members as soon as Wednesday on the use of personal data of millions of their users by a firm hired as a consultant to President Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, according to a congressional official familiar with the discussions. Details are still being worked out about how and when such a briefing would take place, as well as who would appear from the company, according to the official, who asked for anonymity because the discussions aren’t public. Democrats on the committee are demanding that Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, schedule a hearing on revelations that the company Cambridge Analytica exploited information from millions of Facebook users without their permission. In a letter to Goodlatte, top Judiciary Committee Democrat Jerrold Nadler of New York said that neither Alexander Nix, the chief executive officer of Cambridge Analytica, nor Brad Parscale -- who ran the 2016 Trump campaign’s digital operations and has been named Trump’s campaign manager for 2020 -- have responded to Democratic requests for information. Nadler played a prominent role in securing the briefing from Facebook, said the offical. The Senate Judiciary Committee also is in the process of scheduling a briefing from Facebook, said George Hartmann, spokesman for Chairman Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican. 


[w565] Facebook data breach: Why Indians should be wary of Cambridge Analytica scandal  Facebook and the UK-based data analytics company Cambridge Analytica (and its related company, SCL) are in the eye of the storm after a sting by Channel 4 reporters and reports in The Guardian, The Observer and The New York Times showed how big data and dirty tricks are par for the course in fighting elections today. The newspapers had reported that Cambridge Analytica illegally harvested data on 50 million Facebook users, and used them in helping Donald Trump win his election. The firm has denied this. The Channel 4 sting brought out a video which purportedly shows the top management of Cambridge Analytica purportedly telling the undercover reporter about how they can use extortion and honey traps to damage the prospects of those standing in opposition to their clients. Again, Cambridge Analytica has denied this and claimed that the video is heavily edited and shows a distorted view of the meetings. At any rate, an investigation is on by UK authorities and meanwhile Facebook has suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform pending an investigation, and Facebook itself has not come out smelling of roses on the way it manages data of people using the social network. Why is the Cambridge Analytica affair important for India? For a number of reasons. One, using social media and data analytics has already become increasingly important since the last elections. The social media campaign used by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP in - and since the - 2014 general elections have provided a template for other politicians and parties on how they need to get their act together in the future elections. Equally important, there were reports that the Congress may have been talking to Cambridge Analytica about the 2019 elections, and even if it doesn't use them now after the scandal, it would definitely look at how modern elections are fought across the world. Data analytics has become as important in fighting elections today as all the other traditional methods. Data analysis was used heavily in deciding strategy even in India during the 2014 general elections, the subsequent Bihar assembly elections and even in the UP elections. The use of data and targeting of individual voters is only going to increase as data on voters become increasingly available. If data is the new oil as different businessmen and politicians love to proclaim, a lot of companies ranging from platforms like Google, Amazon and Facebook and data analytics firms and independent consultants are building their businesses around it. In the past too, data was used in Indian elections (and in elections across the world) though in a much less scientific manner. Putting up candidates in seats based on the case calculations of voters in that particular seat has been popular in elections for long. What is new is that the current firms allow for individual targeting of voters according to the data trails they have left on the internet. A far greater scientific analysis is available now on an individual's preferences and likes and dislikes than ever before. Google uses it to understand and refine its advertising aimed at you and Amazon uses it to recommend things you need to buy. But it is only in the last few years that firms like Cambridge Analytica have sprung up to help fight elections. Cambridge Analytica may or may not be used by the BJP or Congress or any of the other parties in the next round of elections. But make no mistake, the strategy of data analytics and individual targeting they use will be used by all politicians in all future elections. 

[w566]  Facebook Data: FTC Probing Facebook For Use Of Personal Data  Facebook Inc. is drawing scrutiny from the main U.S. privacy watchdog and half a dozen congressional committees over how the personal data of 50 million users was obtained by a data analytics firm that helped elect President Donald Trump. Facebook said it would conduct staff-level briefings of six committees Tuesday and Wednesday. That includes meetings with the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, as well as the commerce and intelligence committees of both chambers. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is also probing whether Facebook violated terms of a 2011 consent decree over its handling of personal user data that was transferred to Cambridge Analytica without users’ knowledge, according to a person familiar with the matter. The FTC will be sending a letter to the company, another person said. Facebook slumped on the news, extending Monday’s decline. The FTC is the lead U.S. agency for enforcing companies’ adherence to their own privacy policies and could fine the company into the millions of dollars if it finds Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree . New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced on Tuesday that he and Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey had sent a demand letter to Facebook as part of a joint probe stemming from the fallout. Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen announced his own probe Monday. Amid the scrutiny, Facebook will be confronting immediate demands by Congress. In addition to the briefings, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he wants to hear testimony from Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, as well as Twitter Inc. CEO Jack Dorsey. Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said any decision about calling Zuckerberg to appear before the panel is farther off.   Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who also serves on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Tuesday that she has "grown increasingly concerned as we’re learning more and more about the manipulation of data, the harvesting of data from Facebook, the ads that were placed to sow the seeds of discord in this country." The panel has previously heard testimony into Russia’s use of Facebook to attempt to meddle in the 2016 election. "I believe that Facebook, Twitter, the other social media platforms have a lot of questions to answer," she said. Cambridge Denial Cambridge Analytica’s board announced Tuesday it was suspending CEO Alexander Nix pending an independent investigation into his comments in an undercover video by London’s Channel 4 News. Nix told the reporters, who posed as potential clients, that the firm’s services included the potential to try to induce targets with bribes, entrapment by prostitutes and spreading disinformation. In an earlier statement, Cambridge Analytica said it “strongly” denied “false allegations” in the media and said that the Facebook data at the center of the scandal wasn’t used as part of services provided to the Trump campaign. Under the terms of the 2011 settlement with the FTC, Facebook agreed to get user consent for certain changes to privacy settings as part of its resolution of federal charges that it deceived consumers and forced them to share more personal information than they intended. That complaint arose after the company changed some user settings without notifying its customers, according to an FTC statement at the time. ‘Stronger Protections’ "The FTC takes the allegations that the data of millions of people were used without proper authorization very seriously," FTC Commissioner Terrell McSweeny, a Democrat, said in a statement Tuesday. "The allegations also highlight the limited rights Americans have to their data. Consumers need stronger protections for the digital age such as comprehensive data security and privacy laws, transparency and accountability for data brokers, and rights to and control over their data." Earlier, an FTC spokeswoman said that the agency can’t comment on whether it’s investigating but said that it takes "any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously." The people who described the FTC’s moves asked not to be identified because the details aren’t public. If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine the company more than $40,000 a day per violation. Facebook previously said in a statement it rejects "any suggestion of violation of the consent decree." Facebook fell 2.6 percent to $168.15 in New York, the lowest level since September. That follows a drop of 6.8 percent Monday that was the company’s largest since March 2014.   Despite the outcry by lawmakers, GOP-controlled congressional committees haven’t demanded formal hearings with Facebook executives. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said a decision on public hearings would be made after the Facebook briefings this week. A key question will be appetite by the committees, several of which have already interviewed top Facebook executives, for a public appearance by the company’s leadership, including Zuckerberg. The founder has remained essentially invisible in recent days, even within Facebook. Senators Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, and John Kennedy, a Louisiana Republican, repeated their bipartisan call Monday for testimony by the CEOs of Facebook, Twitter and Alphabet Inc.’s Google before the Judiciary Committee. The Facebook officials currently set to brief members of Congress include the company’s deputy general counsel and deputy chief privacy officer, said a congressional official. ‘Bad Actors’ Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that that it would "be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors." "We have a lot of questions about how this information was used, whether it was given to Russia and whether Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign communicated with WikiLeaks," Feinstein added. Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive officer faced questions during a meeting with the House Intelligence Committee in December about whether he sought material from WikiLeaks publisher Julian Assange that was stolen from computers of the Democratic National Committee and from John Podesta, who chaired Democrat Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. In a letter Tuesday to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, top House Judiciary Committee Democrat Jerrold Nadler of New York said that neither Nix nor Brad Parscale, who ran the 2016 Trump campaign’s digital operations and hired Cambridge Analytica as a consultant, have responded to Democratic requests for information. Parscale has since been named the manager of Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign. Whistleblower Interview Democrats on the House intelligence panel led by Adam Schiff of California say they will continue their work. Schiff on Tuesday said a Cambridge Analytica whistleblower, Christopher Wiley, has agreed to be interviewed by them. The Facebook revelations have also prompted transatlantic reaction. The chairman of a UK parliamentary committee announced Tuesday he was requesting that Facebook’s Zuckerberg, who has remained silent for days, appear before the panel to supplement prior testimony by the company’s executives. White House spokesman Raj Shah said Tuesday that Trump “believes that Americans’ privacy should be protected” and supports federal investigations into the incident. “If Congress wants to look into the matter or other agencies want to look into the matter, we welcome that," Shah said on Fox News. Asked if Zuckerberg should testify, Shah demurred. "Without knowing the specifics, it’s difficult to talk about whether an individual should testify,” he said. On Tuesday, a Facebook executive answered questions from employees on the issues during internal town hall meeting at the company’s Menlo Park, California, headquarters.    


[w567]  Forget Aadhaar, Facebook threat real: What Cambridge-Analytica case confirms 

[w568]      Facebook ‘being investigated by FTC’ Facebook ‘being investigated by FTC’    The US Federal Trade Commission is reported to be investigating Facebook after allegations that 50 million users’ private information was misused by a political consultancy firm. Cambridge Analytica (CA), hired by the Trump campaign in the 2016 US election, has been accused of taking the personal data unknown to users. CA head Alexander Nix has now been suspended by the company board. The move came amid allegations the firm may have broken US electoral law. CA, which is based in London, denies any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Facebook’s stock has continued to slide, following a steep decline on Monday (March 19). The British and European parliaments have called on Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence to them, and the social network is due to brief congressional aides today (March 21). According to Foreign media, Zuckerberg did not attend a Facebook staff briefing on the crisis at its Californian headquarters yesterday (March 20), which was led by deputy general counsel Paul Grewal instead.  ​   


[w569]    	In a meeting with the head of Cambridge Analytica — the political data firm used by the Trump campaign in 2016 — reporters from NBC News’ U.K. partner ITN Channel 4 News posed as potential clients interested in changing the outcome of the Sri Lankan elections. 	According to reports by NBC Chicago, the reporters, who were trying to find out how the company operated, quickly learned about the novel and deceptive methods employed by the company, including bribes, blackmail, and misinformation campaigns. The findings were broadcast by the network on Monday. 	On hidden camera, the reporters recorded Alexander Nix, chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, discussing the idea of hypothetically entrapping an opposition leader. 	He described how the company could record a person accepting a bribe, "an offer he can't refuse," or "send some girls around to the candidate’s house." 

[w570] UK MPs ask Facebook's Zuckerberg to testify on data row


[w571] UK seeking warrant to access Cambridge Analytica servers            


[w572]         Facebook’s Zuckerberg to address staff Friday at regular meeting    Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will address employees of the social network on Friday at a previously scheduled all-hands meeting, where he’s likely to face questions about the controversy over user data improperly obtained by political-advertising firm Cambridge Analytica. Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg haven’t yet spoken publicly about the data leak, which has set off a firestorm of criticism around the world. On Tuesday, Facebook vice president and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal fielded inquiries from employees on the situation, according to a person familiar with the matter. Workers had questions about what Facebook knew and when, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the meeting was internal. Grewal’s comments were broadcast from the company’s headquarters in Menlo Park, California, to staff around the world via an "FYI Live" video -- a common way for Facebook leaders and employees to communicate. Facebook confirmed that a meeting occurred, without giving details. Zuckerberg and Sandberg, the company’s top executives, didn’t take part on Tuesday. Grewal authored a Friday evening blog post from Facebook explaining that the company was suspending Cambridge Analytica, the advertising data firm that helped Donald Trump win the U.S. presidential election in 2016. Grewal wrote that Facebook had reason to believe Cambridge Analytica didn’t delete data it obtained from users years ago without their explicit consent. His post was published ahead of reports about the data leak that were set to come out the next day from the New York Times and the Guardian’s Observer. Facebook, frequently criticized for its public communication tactics, has historically worked to be transparent with its employees, encouraging them not to leak because they receive so much confidential internal information. Aside from the FYI Live videos, Facebook has also been answering questions via an internal group called "Wait What? Ask PR."  In the group, staff are encouraged to ask questions about news reports, and critique decisions about what to say publicly. “Mark, Sheryl and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue," a Facebook representative said in a statement following the meeting. "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information."            


[w573]         Amazon just passed Alphabet to become the world's second most valuable company  Amazon has passed Alphabet and now trails just Apple among the list of the world's most valuable companies. The e-commerce giant rose 2.7 percent on Tuesday lifting its stock market value to $768 billion. Alphabet, the parent of Google, fell 0.4 percent and is now valued at $762.5 billion. While the U.S. tech mega-caps have rallied in the past year, Amazon's performance has dwarfed them all, with the stock surging 85 percent over the past 12 months, including 35 percent to start 2018. Investors have been piling into Amazon, betting that the company's growing and very profitable cloud computing business will provide the cash needed for investments in original content, physical stores and continuing to build data centers and warehouses. Meanwhile, Facebook's plunge has dropped the social network's market value below Berkshire Hathaway. Facebook, now the seventh most valuable company, has lost more than 9 percent of its market capitalization in the past two days after revelations on Friday and over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica had misused data tied to 50 million Facebook users. Microsoft is the fourth biggest company by market cap, followed by China's Tencent.     


[w574]  Facebook to hook stream viewers with built-in rewards system  Facebook to hook stream viewers with built-in rewards system  A new suite of software from Facebook allows game developers to attract viewers of livestreamed broadcasts with in-game rewards and integrate Facebook Analytics directly into their games. Facebook used the annual Game Developers Conference to unveil its new Games SDK. The Software Development Kit is designed to increase engagement and embed app events and Facebook Analytics into PC and mobile games.  Massively multiplayer online game Crowfall , in paid beta since 2017, is one of the titles used to illustrate Facebook’s announcement, with multiplayer action game “Paladins” being another, while Overwatch and World of Warcraft developer Blizzard was also cited. The livestreaming component of Facebook’s Games SDK will allow players to livestream directly from a game to Facebook “in a matter of seconds,” the company wrote in a March 19 update. In the near future, video clips will be shareable to Facebook Pages, Groups and Profiles. Players (and developers) are being incentivized to use the streaming feature via a reward system built into the SDK. Facebook invites game makers to “[curate and grant] free, in-game rewards for viewers that tune in during livestreams.” The rewards system tacitly invites viewers to then play those games themselves, in order to redeem the virtual item at the very least. Facebook is also offering to provide developers with an enhancement to its Facebook Login and Facebook Friend Finder features. The social media company wants players and game developers to focus attention on Facebook’s network via Key Player Stats, through which players can post their performance metrics to a Group and find others to play with. Thirdly, App Events and Facebook Analytics provide the promise that developers will be able to better optimize the way their games work. The Games SDK announcement came as Facebook was being accused of wilfully ignoring the activity of Cambridge Analytica, a political consultancy firm that aggressively leveraged Facebook’s developer-side systems in order to influence millions upon millions of US voters. It did so through the covert harvesting and analysis of profile data in the lead-up to the 2016 US Presidential Election, according to a whistleblower.

[w575] Yoursay: With Cambridge Analytica, the world of big data just got murkier       Yoursay: With Cambridge Analytica, the world of big data just got murkier  ‘No scruples as to how you win as long as you win.’ 'Sex, lies and bribes' - Trump's election consultants admit to working in M'sia HP Looi: Every honest political operative should now already be trained in the black art of ‘kompromat’ - the Russian KGB/FSK black art of compromising politicians using “honey traps” and other compromising material. Security training should now be mandatory for every opposition politician. This includes email security, avoiding honey traps (especially when overseas) and ostensible offers of “free money.” The only good which may come out of this is that only determined, honest and clean politicians who are immune to temptations will survive. Kelate: Those in Cambridge Analytica have sold their souls. As a citizen, there is so much anger in me to see that those in power are so bent on evil to win elections at all costs. Cogito Ergo Sum: And this is how GE14 will be won. No scruples as to how you win as long as you win. Clever Voter: It’s an open secret that an effective election campaign requires combined analytics of market segments and communicating key proposition highlights. Help has no ethical standards, it involves even social media, and offering incentives is just one of the many forms of this. It is common practice, even during the recent US presidential election . So what if these experts help out in a landscape designed for kleptocrats, whose interests involve hundreds if not thousands of dependents. The opposition has no less access to such expertise, but with technology and the right expertise, one could perhaps assess its chances better. Already, blatant promises of money and contracts have started, and with no end to such practices, it is really up to the voters. Many are gullible falling for such promises. Lies, sex, and power are not beneath politicians eager and anxious to enter this big-time business. It is unlikely that the stakes will go any lower anytime soon, and it’s a common knowledge that money does help win elections. Anonymous 568201438363345: Now that we know of this thing, besides complaining to all the irrelevant parties, I am interested to know what Pakatan Harapan is going to do to counter this? Probably nothing, since a few of their leaders may have benefited from Cambridge Analytica’s services too. Kangkung: One thing Cambridge Analytica or any data company cannot change is the fact that Malaysian Official 1 (MO1) has allegedly stolen billions from the rakyat and in GE14, the Umno government under MO1 must be shown the exit door. Did you manipulate GE13, Bersatu's Wan Saiful asks Najib VGV: According to Harapan leaders, the same tactic "may be used" in the coming 14th general election. If it is indeed true that Cambridge Analytica’s services were used in GE13, then with the cat already out of the bag after the international revelations in the US and UK, it won’t work this time. So what’s next? Will Cambridge Analytica have to come up with new ideas to win GE14? Because it seems like those in power will do anything to remain in power. GE14: The powers-that-be are that desperate this time. Through the redelineation of electoral boundaries and other manipulative tactics, there is no doubt which side will be is favoured to win. Only the will of the people can stop it. No one else can save our beloved country from all these alleged conspirators and collaborators. Anonymous 568201438363345: What Cambridge Analytica did can potentially change gullible minds. Gerrymandering, on the other hand… 51 Kebabs: Let’s be clear, Cambridge Analytica probably only flooded social media users’ news feeds with propaganda. They didn’t change anyone’s votes, nor interfere with the process. The “honey traps” were not even done over here, but overseas. If Umno hiring Cambridge Analytica is so bad, then what about the opposition’s use of Invoke?  Come on, can you expect us to believe that the then Umno number two had no knowledge about his coalition hiring Cambridge Analytica? Super sleuth Lim Guan Eng should investigate the matter – surely, he can produce some incriminating photos. Mano: If what Wan Saiful and the Harapan leaders are saying is true, taxpayer money is being used to stay in power to allegedly loot even more taxpayer money. As one tycoon has said, this “business” model is the easiest as it requires no capital, and with all losses socialised. Cambridge Analytica - Muhyiddin in the dark, says Najib does things on his own Anonymous_0c358617: It's funny that neither Bersatu president Muhyiddin Yassin nor deputy president Mukhriz Mahathir know anything about Cambridge Analytica. You can’t have it both ways; either the accusations are true, or they are false. VGV: Muhyiddin must have been "played out" quite cleverly by Prime Minister Najib Abdul Razak for not letting him know all his "secret" dealings, although you were the BN election director then. And we may not know of his other alleged illegal activities that were done behind the backs of many Umno leaders then. 

[w576]          Cambridge Analytica's Board Suspends CEO Nix Amid Inquiry    Cambridge Analytica said it suspended Chief Executive Officer Alexander Nix after the executive, whose data company rose to international fame helping Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election, was caught on camera boasting about the firm’s willingness to use bribes, entrapment with sex workers and other possibly illegal tactics to undermine political candidates. The U.K.-based political-advertising firm’s board said Tuesday that Nix’s suspension is pending an investigation into his comments - which are airing this week after a four-monthlong undercover operation by Channel 4 News - and other allegations surrounding the firm. Cambridge Analytica has come under fire in recent days following reports that it improperly harvested data from tens of millions of Facebook Inc. users, then failed to destroy the information when confronted to do so. Cambridge Analytica has a history of dubious election tricks, and the firm has been prolific in securing international elections work - and often felt no need to hide its tactics. Last year, Nix told Bloomberg News that his company was involved in as many as 10 campaigns for prime minister and president every year, including in Asia, Africa, Europe and South America. According to documents given to prospective clients, for a campaign in Latvia, the British affiliate of Cambridge Analytica known as SCL Group ran a disinformation operation designed to stoke ethnic tensions between Latvians and ethnic Russians, blaming Russians for unemployment and helping a nationalist candidate to victory. But the firm’s effectiveness has long been in question. While controversy has swirled around Cambridge Analytica’s role in helping Trump win the American presidency, it wasn’t until this week, when Nix’s latest comments aired, that the firm’s techniques caught up with him. Nix was recorded on camera by Channel 4 News reporters, who posed as potential clients looking to influence elections in Sri Lanka. In one exchange, videos show Nix, whose connection to Trump’s victory minted him and his firm as data wizards, appearing to downplay Cambridge Analytica’s data-mining services and tout more old-school political dirty tricks instead. One of the firm’s services, Nix said, is facilitating a sting where a politician is approached by someone posing as a wealthy developer and offering a large amount of money in exchange for a kickback. Or the firm could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house,” he said. “Deep digging is interesting, but equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true and make sure that’s video-recorded -- these sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption and putting it on the internet,” Nix said. “I’m just giving you examples of what can be done, what has been done.” Cambridge Analytica can also help sway elections by spreading disinformation about candidates. “It doesn’t have to be true,” Nix said in one of the recordings aired this week. “It just has to be believed.” The executive also said his company used a self-destructing email server to communicate with clients in order to eliminate evidence of their contact. In the Channel 4 report aired Tuesday, Nix claimed credit for the work done on Trump’s campaign, saying: “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy.” In an interview with the BBC on Monday, Nix denied claims that Cambridge Analytica engaged in improper tactics to sway elections, calling the allegations a coordinated attack by the media. The firm said it doesn’t engage in the actions that Nix described and that Alexander Tayler will serve as acting CEO while the probe is under way. The board said a full investigation into the comments and allegations will be led by U.K. lawyer Julian Malins. “Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” Cambridge Analytica’s board said in a statement. Nix, known as Bertie, graduated from the elite boarding school Eton College. He set up Cambridge Analytica in 2013 to target the U.S. market, installing himself as CEO after 14 years as a director of SCL. In the past couple of years, Nix, 42, has become a darling in tech and marketing circles, popping up on the international speaking circuit to promote his data-driven approach. 


[w577]             Wall St advances on energy bump; Facebook woes continues     U.S. stocks advanced modestly on Tuesday as higher oil prices lifted the energy sector, but another slump in Facebook Inc shares curbed gains. Oil prices rose more than 2 percent to touch a three-week high, driven by tensions in the Middle East and the possibility of further declines in Venezuelan crude output. Those gains helped the S&P; energy index rise 0.84 percent, making it easily the best performing of the 11 major S&P; 500 sectors. Facebook Inc shares ended down 2.6 percent, well above earlier lows. The social media company said on Tuesday it faced questions from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission about how its users' personal data was mined by a political consultancy hired by President Donald Trump's campaign. The stock has fallen about 9 percent over the past two sessions, its biggest two-day decline since February 2016, a drop that has weighed heavily on equities. U.S. and European lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how the consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, gained access to the data and why Facebook failed to inform its users, raising broader industry questions about consumer privacy and whether tougher regulation is on the horizon. "The negative part would be they are going to haul them in front of Congress now and we’ll see do they create new laws, are there new regulations that could stunt the growth of the company? That is really what the fear is," said Joe Saluzzi, co-manager of trading at Themis Trading in Chatham, New Jersey. Facebook was not the only social media stock or fund taking a hit on Tuesday. Shares of Snap Inc fell 2.56 percent, while Twitter Inc shares tumbled 10.38 percent. The Global X Social Media ETF lost 0.9 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 116.36 points, or 0.47 percent, to 24,727.27, the S&P; 500 gained 4.02 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,716.94 and the Nasdaq Composite added 20.06 points, or 0.27 percent, to 7,364.30. Oracle dropped 9.4 percent after the business software maker reported lower-than-expected quarterly revenue. Financial stocks edged up 0.21 percent as investors awaited a near-certain interest rate hike at the end of the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on Wednesday. Market participants largely expect a total of three rate hikes this year, although some have not ruled out the possibility the U.S. central bank will hike four times. "We are finally normalizing, after years we talked about the Fed holding it down and the market only going up because of the Fed. Now let’s see what the market can do – can it stand on its own two legs?" said Saluzzi, referring to the low interest rate environment the Fed put into effect after the financial crisis. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 6.26 billion shares, compared with the 7.17 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days. Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 1.28-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.26-to-1 ratio favored decliners. 


[w578]          Facebook Sued by Investors Over Voter-Profile Harvesting     Facebook Inc.’s failure to safeguard the privacy of users is being blamed in an investor lawsuit for a slump in its share price that followed the revelation users’ data were harvested without permission by a research firm connected to U.S. President Donald Trump. The world’s largest social media network was sued in California court on Tuesday by shareholders who said they suffered losses after it was disclosed Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based firm that aided Trump, improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users. 

[w579] PMO Office Issues Statement About Cambridge Analytica, Says Data Firm Reported Directly To Mukhriz Mahathir 

[w580]    World Probe on data practices intensifies Mark Zuckerberg called on to testify over Facebook data leak; Britain seeks warrant to raid Cambridge Analytica offices   British privacy regulators are seeking a warrant to search the offices of the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica following reports that the company may have improperly gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users, according to a Channel 4 television report. The move came as US and European lawmakers demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm, which worked on US President Donald Trump's election campaign, gained access to the data. In the US, members of Congress called on Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg to testify about Facebook's actions. Facebook said it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data, Reuters reported. "Auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytica's London office this evening," the company said in a statement late on Monday.  "At the request of the UK Information Commissioner's Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down."  Views Could Star Wars tech become reality? Jun 01, 2018 "The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook data practices, and the picture is not pretty," said Mr Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who has written about Silicon Valley's use of data. A British parliamentary committee yesterday asked Mr Zuckerberg to appear before it, AFP reported. 'CATASTROPHIC FAILURE' Mr Damian Collins, chairman of the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, wrote to Mr Zuckerberg asking for his account of "this catastrophic failure of process". The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook data practices, and the picture is not pretty University of Maryland law professor Frank Pasquale Mr Collins wrote: "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process. "Given your commitment at the start of the New Year to 'fixing' Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you." Mr Collins set Mr Zuckerberg a deadline of March 26 to reply. Also on Monday, a source said that Facebook head of security Alex Stamos plans to leave the company over disagreements about the company's policies on misinformation. In a tweet, Mr Stamos did not deny he was leaving but said: "Despite the rumours, I am still fully engaged with my work at Facebook. It is true that my role did change." London-based Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denied the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party application in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. Republican Senator John Kennedy called on Mr Zuckerberg to testify before Congress, and Democratic Senator Ron Widen sent a letter to Mr Zuckerberg asking about company policies for sharing user data with third parties. A spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the allegations were "clearly very concerning". Meanwhile, Channel 4 aired a video on Monday apparently showing Mr Alexander Nix, the head of Cambridge Analytica, talking about using bribes, traps involving sex workers and other unethical tactics to swing elections around the world. In the video, he appears to suggest the company could "send some girls around to the candidate's house", Washington Post reported. He later added that he favoured Ukrainian women in particular: "They are very beautiful. I find that works very well." The surreptitiously recorded video also appears to depict conversations involving Mr Nix, Mr Mark Turnbull, the managing director of Cambridge Analytica Political Global, and Mr Alex Tayler, the chief data officer. The executives repeatedly appear to brag about their behind-the-scenes efforts to influence political outcomes in Malaysia, Mexico, Australia and Kenya, at one point teasing that they are beginning to work in China too. 


[w581] Facebook loses US$60bn in market value following user data scandal 


[w582] US FTC probing Facebook data scandal FTC probing Facebook data scandal:  Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been forced to issue a statement outlining his firm's role in the scandal and apologised to its billions of users for the breach The US Federal Trade Commission, a consumer and competition watchdog, is investigating Facebook after a major data scandal that affected 50 million users, US media reported on Tuesday. A probe by the FTC would add further pressure on the social media giant which faces calls by Britain's Parliament and the European Commission for urgent investigations, while US lawmakers have called on Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to appear before Congress. At the center of the scandal is a British firm, Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. According to a joint investigation by The New York Times and Britain's Observer, Cambridge Analytica was able to create psychological profiles using data from 50 million Facebook users through the use of a personality prediction app that was downloaded by 270,000 people, but also scooped up data from friends. The goal was to be able to predict the behavior of individual US voters. The Wall Street Journal reported that the FTC is probing whether, by the data transfer to Cambridge Analytica, Facebook violated terms of a decree under which it agreed to get user consent for collecting personal data and sharing it with others. In a similar report, The Washington Post said that if the FTC ultimately finds that Facebook broke that agreement, it could fine the company $40,000 for each violation. Facebook shares tumbled another 2.6 percent on Tuesday after a 6.8 percent plunge Monday on news of the scandal. The social media company on Tuesday said it is "committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens."   


[w583]   Facebook’s Zuckerberg Called to Explain Massive Data Breach       Facebook’s Zuckerberg Called to Explain Massive Data Breach     On Sunday, March 18, US and EU officials asked Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg for an explanation concerning a massive data breach. The breach involved the personal data of several millions of Facebook users that ended up with Cambridge Analytica (CA), a company hired by US President Donald Trump during his election campaign, without the users’ knowledge or consent. Questions have also arisen whether Facebook has transgressed a landmark consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission, which had been put in place in 2011 in order to avoid the violation of privacy. David Vladeck, who had been an officer with the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection and who had helped negotiate the FTC-Facebook agreement at that time, said that this law carries fines as high as US$40,000 (S$52,700) for every violation, which means that Facebook could end up paying in the billions. The social media app platform denies any violations of their agreement with the FTC, however, it has received renewed attention both politically and from regulatory bodies. This season has been tough for Facebook, which has fought to preserve its image especially after news of Russian agents using the platform to manipulate users during the 2016 presidential elections in the US. Cambridge Analytica made use of another application in order to gain access to data concerning almost 300,000 Facebook users between 2014 and 2015. The Trump campaign had paid the company more than US $6 million for their services during the campaign. However, it’s highly likely that tens of millions of people were affected in the data breach, since the information gathered during this period would have given access even to the data of friends of users, such as their birthdays, education, work histories, locations, pictures, political and religious affiliations, relationship statuses, and more—information that could very much be used by other political campaigns.  This is the first time that Mr. Zuckerberg will directly be questioned on these matters, even if Cambridge Analytics and Facebook have been under investigation in London and Washington for several months now. According to Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar, Mr. Zuckerberg should appear in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee concerning the extent of Facebook’s knowledge of the data of millions of Americans that was used “in order to target political advertising and manipulate voters.” Other US legislators, the Justice Commissioner of the EU, and Damian Collins, a British lawmaker in charge of a committee in parliament tasked to investigate Cambridge Analytics and Facebook, are also calling for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify. On Sunday Mr. Collins said, “I will be writing to Mark Zuckerberg asking that either he or another senior executive from the company appear to give evidence in front of the committee as part our inquiry.” Additionally, the attorneys-general form Pennsylvania and Massachusetts are also intending to launch an investigation. The social media platform has yet to comment on whether or not Mr. Zuckerberg will testify, however, they made a statement on Sunday saying that its own investigations have been renewed. The hiring of Joseph Chancellor, who once worked for Cambridge Analytics and is now with Facebook, is also being investigated, although it is not known whether Facebook knew about his connection with Cambridge Analytics when he was hired. 

[w584] Why the Cambridge Analytica scandal matters  Why the Cambridge Analytica scandal matters  Facebook’s shares have taken a nosedive after something to do with data used by Cambridge Analytica. Confused? Here’s what it means, and what could come next.  Cambridge Analytica is a London-based consulting firm. It is under pressure  over allegations it uses illegally obtained data  and social media manipulation to influence elections. Those claims come from Christopher Wylie, 28, who told  The Guardian he helped found the company and that he came up with the technique  which combined psychological profiling and information warfare. In a nutshell, there are three main points to Wylie’s story: People were targeted with political ads  individually tailored to their personality to manipulate them  to get them to vote for Donald Trump in the 2016 election The data was obtained via a personality test on Facebook and  pulled in information about what their friends liked  without their explicit permission The same technique has potentially been  applied to elections across the world , with the company selling its services to the highest bidder Wylie said the data was collected very quickly. About 320,000 people used the personality quiz app on Facebook “thisismydigitallife” created by Global Science Research (GSR), run by Cambridge-based academic Aleksandr Kogan. The data of about 50 million users was harvested in about two months by accessing those users’ friends networks, Wylie said. He also said the name Cambridge Analytica had nothing to do with the Cambridge University in the UK, other than it had an office in the town and intentionally used the name to seem more authoritative. The claims have led to investigations  in the UK, the US  and the EU. UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said she would apply for a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica offices, and the head of the UK’s inquiry into fake news has requested Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg give answers about Facebook having previously misled it. Wylie has submitted evidence to the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office and its National Crime Agency’s cybercrime unit,  The Guardian  reported. Donald Trump during the US Presidential election campaign (Photo by Kena Betancur/Getty Images) One of Trump’s campaign backers, secretive US hedge-fund billionaire and Republican donor Robert Mercer, was Cambridge Analytica’s main investor after former Trump campaign head Steve Bannon brought the firm – including Wylie – to pitch to him. For its part, Cambridge Analytica has denied any wrongdoing. The firm insisted it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data. Why it matters The question now is whether what Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have each done is actually illegal, and what parts of it may just be considered immoral. Initially objectionable is the way the GSR data – which Wylie says has essentially formed the basis for Cambridge Analytica’s work – was obtained. Further concerns surround the effect on democratic elections. Certainly, there has been spin in political elections forever, but putting the ability to sway public opinion into the hands of those who can pay would seem to undermine the very basis of democracy. Wylie told  The Guardian  the company was willing to subvert elections on behalf of foreign governments. He also claimed a Russian oil company was fully briefed by the company about how it uses personality data to affect elections. Facebook’s role Facebook shares have plummeted since the story broke, dropping 6.7% of its value on Monday, wiping almost $37bn from its market value. Wylie told  The Guardian  no one at Cambridge Analytica had checked if taking the data was legal. The GSR app that was taking the data apparently had permission to do so for “academic purposes only”. Wylie claims to have a contract between GSR and Cambridge Analytica’s parent company specifically for harvesting and processing Facebook data. A report in 2015  claimed the firm was using Facebook data to support US Republican Ted Cruz. Wylie said the only effort Facebook made to retrieve the data after the 2015 report was to send him a letter – months later in August 2016, some two years after the breach took place and after he had left Cambridge Analytica – saying the data had been illicitly obtained and GSR “was not authorised to share or sell it”. Wylie said the letter asked the data to be deleted immediately, tick a box saying it had been done, and send the letter back to Facebook. Cambridge Analytica was suspended from Facebook on Saturday, making it harder for the company to carry out its role. In  a statement , it said it fully complied with Facebook’s terms of service and did not hold data from Facebook profiles. “Global Science Research (GSR), was contractually committed by us to only obtain data in accordance with the UK Data Protection Act and to seek the informed consent of each respondent. GSR was also contractually the Data Controller (as per Section 1(1) of the Data Protection Act) for any collected data. GSR obtained Facebook data via an API provided by Facebook,” it said. “When it subsequently became clear that the data had not been obtained by GSR in line with Facebook’s terms of service, Cambridge Analytica deleted all data received from GSR.” Wylie said there were multiple copies of the data, however, and it had been emailed in unencrypted files. What Cambridge Analytica says Cambridge Analytica has now  suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix  over comments secretly recorded by the UK’s Channel 4, “pending a full, independent investigation”. “We did all the research [for the Trump campaign]. “We did all the data. We did all the analytics. We did all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign and our data informed their strategy,” Nix told an undercover reporter during a meeting in a London hotel. Nix also said he had met the then Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump “many times” and that his firm played a central role in the final months of the campaign. Before his suspension, Cambridge Analytica  claimed  Facebook data from GSR had all been deleted, and was not used for Donald Trump’s campaign. It also  put out a statement  saying the interview was mischaracterised and obtained through entrapment. “Assessing the legality and reputational risks associated with new projects is critical for us, and we routinely undertake conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions. The two Cambridge Analytica executives at the meeting humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions. They left with grave concerns and did not meet with him again,” the statement said. How to protect your data on Facebook There are a few things to be aware of if you want to restrict who has access to your data. Keep an eye on apps, especially those which require you to log in using your Facebook account – they often have a very wide range of permissions and many are specifically designed to pick up your data Use an ad blocker to limit advertising Look at your Facebook security settings and make sure you are aware of what is enabled. Check the individual app settings to see whether you have given them permission to view your friends as well as yourself You can download a copy of the data Facebook holds on you, although it is not comprehensive. There is a download button at the bottom of the General Account Settings tab. However, bear in mind that your data may be less secure sitting on your laptop than it is on Facebook’s servers if your device is hacked You can of course, simply leave Facebook, but the campaign group Privacy International warns that privacy concerns extend beyond the social network 


[w585]   US watchdog investigates Cambridge Analytica, Facebook 


[w586]      Juha Saarinen: Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess   Advertisement Advertise with NZME.  Facebook is still being used to watch, track and segment us - and we're complicit    Nearly a third of the world uses the social media site Facebook, but how are New Zealanders using it?           A New Zealand advertising boss says the strategies employed by data firm Cambridge Analytica are nothing new to the marketing industry - and neither is the impassioned response to the control they are purported to have over the public. "They're selling baked beans like they're selling politicians," said Paul Catmur, the chief executive of Barnes, Catmur & Friends Dentsu. "What Cambridge Analytica did for the Trump campaign seems currently no different to what they or a number of similar firms do for commercial clients. Nobody currently seems too upset about the use of psychographic methods to sell toothpaste, but they are up in arms to see it used to manipulate support for a right-wing president." Catmur also questioned the supposed impact of the data firm's role in the election, suggesting it may have been little more than a hyperbolic marketing ploy. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. "While they claim to have helped Trump's victory, this may well have been exaggerated to help sell themselves to their commercial clients," said Catmur. "The Trump campaign disputes the effectiveness of [their] work. And they also worked for Ted Cruz and that didn't seem to help him much." Catmur said the current outrage regarding the impact of marketing practices on the choices the public makes is also nothing new. "It's a natural progression of the sophistication of marketing and the current hysteria is similar to that around the launch of Vance Packard's book The Hidden Persuaders in 1957. "In his book, Packard claimed that consumers were being influenced against their will by companies using sophisticated research techniques. Sound familiar?" Catmur added that the data techniques employed by Cambridge Analytica are neither novel nor sophisticated in light of the rapid development in the space. Related articles: Two words Facebook boss lives to regret 20 Mar, 2018 8:25pm  Bombshell video sting on data firm 20 Mar, 2018 10:02am  Facebook stocks plunge as pressure mounts on Zuckerberg 20 Mar, 2018 7:00am "The notable difference is that toothpaste marketers are not currently suspected of working with the Russians to sway the sales of dental floss." The reason Cambridge Analytica has hit the headlines is largely due to the affront its actions pose to democracy. But this isn't an issue limited to one firm or one social media platform, according to Simon Bird, the strategy director at media agency PHD. "Filter bubbles, which exist pretty much everywhere in the digital world, are creating divided societies because people end up only consuming content that affirms their current worldview," Bird told the Herald . "Serving people more content that they're more likely to respond to is obviously good business for digital companies but clearly it's not without a social cost." What's perhaps most concerning - and insidious - about the Cambridge Analytica story is that Facebook users handed over their data willingly. Everyone who answered a series of seemingly innocuous questions via the research app agreed to share their data. No systems were surreptitiously infiltrated and no one stole passwords or sensitive information without permission. To Facebook, the only real violation was the transfer of information collected for "research" to a third party such as Cambridge. What this really comes down to is our willingness to opt-in, that is to hand over our information without so much as a second thought.         Facebook allows you to look at which apps have permission to access your personal information - and quick look at your personal list will likely reveal that a few less-than-reputable companies have access to your information. • Go here to find out how much information you're sharing with apps on Facebook. This really poses the question of whether you really trust the makers of Farmsville enough not to give your details to next iteration of Cambridge Analytica. While it might be true that users are consenting to their information being handed over, this consent is about as concrete as that given when consumers click confirm under a complex user agreement. "People are cognitively lazy so burying consent in a long approval form is legally defendable but most people don't know what they're consenting to or how their data is being used so it's a little morally questionable," says Bird. "Businesses and ergo marketers will always push the boundaries as much as they're legally allowed to. I think the laws will get much tighter." Bird's prediction seems likely in light of recent legal shifts in Australia, making it mandatory for companies to disclose a data breach as soon as they occur. There are now also local calls from security experts for similar rules to be applied in this market. Barry Brailey, a cybersecurity specialist at Aura Information Security, would welcome the introduction of similar laws in this market. "When someone else holds something of yours that is valuable, they have a duty to look after it," says Brailey. "They also have a duty to let you know if something happens to it – and that's really what notification laws codify." And as more data is handed over across digital channels, the onus of this responsibility will only become greater.  

[w587]      Zuckerberg summoned by UK Parliament as data firm faces searches  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has lost billions in the past days.            British MPs have requested Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg give evidence as part of an ongoing inquiry into how the world's largest social-media platform handles fake news. The formal request arrives as privacy watchdogs across Europe plot their next steps in the wake of a scandal over the British firm accused of harvesting Facebook user profiles in its work for Donald Trump's presidential campaign. British Conservative MP Damian Collins, head of a committee investigating the impact of social media on recent elections, wrote to Zuckerberg today to request he answer for a "catastrophic failure of process" regarding the handling of user data. Separately, the EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said she also plans to meet with Facebook during a visit in the US this week and seek answers to claims that Cambridge Analytica kept information on tens of millions of the social network giant's users. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. "From a European Union perspective, the misuse for political purposes of personal data belonging to Facebook users - if confirmed - is not acceptable," the EU said in a statement. UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said she's in the process of obtaining a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica, the firm at the centre of the scandal. Channel 4 News and the Guardian released further damaging reports on Cambridge Analytica. A panel of data privacy authorities from the 28-nation EU are expected to discuss the issue at a meeting in Brussels Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica failed to respond to an access request by the UK Information Commissioner's Office, forcing the authority to seek a warrant "to obtain information and access to systems and evidence," it said in a statement. At issue is information on millions of Facebook users that Cambridge Analytica obtained from a researcher who shared the data without Facebook's permission.  Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess   How Facebook apps get permission to stalk you  Two words Facebook boss lives to regret  Firm had reach beyond US elections  According to published news reports, Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan created a personality-analysis app that was used by 270,000 Facebook users, who in turn gave the app permission to access data on themselves and their friends, ultimately exposing a network of 50 million. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it's been in touch with ICO since last year about various aspects of its activities. The firm said it remains "committed to helping the ICO and all other concerned organisations in their investigations and audits." Wow. Now there's a Facebook whistleblower. Data harvested not from tens of millions or users, but hundreds of millions.... https://t.co/TcgSvCDkxO — Carole Cadwalladr (@carolecadwalla) March 20, 2018 Concerning Facebook data, the firm said it "offered to share with the ICO all the information that it asked for and for the ICO to attend our office voluntarily, subject to our agreeing the scope of the inspection." In an earlier statement Cambridge Analytica said it "strongly" denied "false allegations" in the media and said that the Facebook data at the centre of the scandal wasn't used as part of services provided to the Trump campaign. Facebook has enlisted the firm Stroz Friedberg to assess advertising-data provider Cambridge Analytica, whose handling of Facebook user data has mired the social networking company in controversy. EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they “ran all the digital campaign” for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities. https://t.co/YzCJIPZser #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 "On March 19, Facebook announced that it will stand down its search of Cambridge Analytica premises at the Information Commissioner's request," the ICO said in the statement. "Such a search would potentially compromise a regulatory investigation." Facebook said in a blog post on the issue that it was "moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information." Speaking to BBC Radio 4, Denham said that the ICO was "concerned about the integrity of our investigation. We are also looking at Facebook at the same time. Our advice to Facebook was 'back away.'" She told Channel 4 News earlier that the agency was seeking a warrant. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica had agreed to be audited by Stroz Friedberg to determine whether the data company still has the disputed information. NEWS: Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO Alexander Nix, the company told employees today. Story soon on WSJ. — Rebecca Ballhaus (@rebeccaballhaus) March 20, 2018 Reporter: “So the candidate is the puppet?" Cambridge Analytica: “Always.” EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump's campaign consultants secretly filmed discussing US politics. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/Q8dfb1kCaN — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they “ran all the digital campaign” for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities.   Hands off my data! 15 default privacy settings you should change right now 


[w588]  Cambridge Analytica’s Global Election Bombshell: Balance of Power The revelations of the apparent skulduggery that helped Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election keep sending shock waves across the political landscape. On top of allegations of Russian meddling in the election come disclosures by the New York Times and the Guardian’s Observer that Cambridge Analytica , a political-advertising firm hired by Trump’s campaign, accessed and retained information on 50 million Facebook Inc. users without their permission and used it to psychoanalyze and target potential voters. Then yesterday, U.K. broadcaster Channel 4 showed footage of Cambridge Analytica executives including CEO Alexander Nix talking about how the firm could use prostitutes and former spies to ensnare politicians and influence elections. They bragged about swaying votes in other countries such as Kenya. The U.K. Electoral Commission is also investigating what role the company may have played in the Brexit referendum. Facebook’s attempts so far to tamp down the firestorm have backfired. Government officials in the U.S. and Europe are demanding answers from CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos is reportedly leaving and the company's shares have dropped. The impact on Trump remains unclear. The Republican leading the House inquiry into Russian meddling said the disclosures, while concerning, wouldn’t stop him from shutting down the probe next week. Yet Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s separate Russia investigation continues.       


[w589]  Deepdive: How facebook helped weaponise your data 


[w590]  Facebook data leak: WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton tweets 'It is time. Delete Facebook'  


[w591] How Zuckerberg saved tens of millions of dollars on Facebook's worst day  How Zuckerberg saved tens of millions of dollars on Facebook's worst day The social media firm is facing an outrage over the alleged privacy breach   Even as the Facebook is facing an unprecedented outrage and demand for investigation over an alleged breach of privacy, its chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has not broken his silence over the issue. The company's shares witnessed a drastic fall of 6.7 per cent on Monday after the data controversy hit headlines. Zuckerburg, who owns 16 per cent of the company shares, personally saw his fortune fall by 5 billion dollar on a single day. However, media reports reveal that Zuckerberg's personal loss could have been even worse. The Facebook CEO had managed to sell off nearly 5 million shares worth tens of millions of dollars before the worst day of the social media firm began, according to a report by the Market Watch . Related stories YouTube, Snapchat more popular than Facebook among US teens Copy our data privacy policies too, Snap CEO to Facebook Papua New Guinea to ban Facebook for month to curb fake news A #DeleteFacebook campaign is gathering steam after reports suggested that a political consultancy firm, Cambridge Analytica, might have improperly gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users. US and European lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm, which worked on US President Donald Trump's election campaign, gained access to the data. According to a report in The Observer earlier this week, a company called Global Science Research (GSR) harvested tens of millions of Facebook profiles and sold the data to Cambridge Analytica. It is not clear whether the consulting firm still possesses the harvested data.  Facebook said on Monday it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data. “If this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook’s policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made,” Facebook said in a statement. London-based Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denied the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party application in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. However, further allegations about the firm’s tactics were reported late Monday by British broadcaster Channel 4 which said it secretly taped interviews with senior Cambridge Analytica executives in which they boasted of their ability to sway elections in countries around the world with digital manipulation and traditional political trickery. Facebook and other social media companies including Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc’s YouTube have taken voluntary steps to restrict possible foreign interference and combat false news, but they have not been forced by law or regulation to make changes and legislation on the issue has stalled. 

[w592]  Cambridge Analytica's parent firm helped shape Saudi reform drive													 														

[w593] 

[w594]  Facebook’s Long History Of Resolving Privacy Claims On The Cheap  Facebook Inc.’s deepening crisis over how the British political-advertising firm Cambridge Analytica misused the social network’s customer user data took another turn Tuesday with the news that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission is investigating. That’s on top of probes by multiple state attorneys general and the U.K. data-protection watchdog. It’s not the first time Facebook has been targeted for its privacy policies. In fact, the FTC probe is looking at whether the incident shows the company violated an 2011 settlement with the agency over its data protections -- any violation of the so-called consent decree could cost Facebook millions of dollars. But that’s a tiny fraction of the company’s nearly $493 billion market value, and a review of some of the major penalties and settlements it’s paid in recent years shows more often than not, these cases don’t end in painfully large payouts: March 29, 2018: Facebook users will ask a San Francisco judge next week to let their claims that the company’s photo-scanning technology gathered and stored biometric data without their consent proceed as a class action. While Facebook potentially faces liability in the billions of dollars under a unique Illinois law, certification isn’t guaranteed and the company has a history of defeating privacy lawsuits entirely or settling them for a fraction of what’s sought. March 2018: Spain’s data protection watchdog fines Facebook and WhatsApp 300,000 euros ($367,650) each for processing user data without people’s consent. September 2017: The same watchdog fines Facebook 1.2 million euros for failing to obtain proper consent to collect and store sensitive personal data, including information on gender, religion and internet use. August 2017: Facebook wins U.S. court approval of a non-monetary settlement of allegations that it systemically scanned users’ private messages. The accord requires the company to not collect demographic and other personal information associated with links shared in Facebook messages. May 2017: France’s privacy regulator fines Facebook 150,000 euros for misusing user data for targeted advertising and illegally tracking what users do on and off the site via cookies. May 2017: The European Union’s antitrust regulator fines Facebook 110 million euros after it changed its privacy policy, in contradiction to the pledge it made to segregate WhatsApp data from other Facebook platforms to win approval for its 2014 takeover of the messaging service. February 2016: A German court fines Facebook 100,000 euros for failing to comply with a 2012 order related to its policies on data usage. December 2012: Facebook’s $20 million settlement of a U.S. class action over claims it used subscribers’ names without their permission to advertise products in its “Sponsored Stories” is approved. November 2011: Facebook agrees to resolve complaints by the U.S. FTC that it failed to protect users’ privacy or disclose how their data could be used. The accord didn’t include a fine, but it required Facebook to get users’ consent for certain changes to privacy settings, among other measures. March 2010: Facebook wins approval of another U.S. class-action settlement, this time for $9.5 million to resolve claims regarding its Beacon feature, which tracked what users buy online and shared the information with their friends.   

[w595]  Facebook Has Endured Potholes, But Data Crisis May Be A Crater  Facebook Inc. is on a merry-go-round of crises, and it can't get off. The question now is whether the latest episode in Facebook's post-2016 period of reckoning will permanently mar its reputation, impair its business prospects and result in onerous regulatory handcuffs.   Investors appear to have decided the answer is yes. In a day-and-a-half of stock market trading, Facebook has lost about $50 billion in market value after  revelations about misuses of Facebook user data and the company's typically inept response . Facebook's 6.8 percent share decline on Monday was the worst percentage swoon for the company since 2014, according to Bloomberg data, and shares are on track for another dip on Tuesday.   This may be the first time that investors have displayed real fear since Facebook became a fixture of controversy starting with its role in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the Brexit vote. The market declines could reverse, of course, but it feels as if the investment hive mind has decided Facebook can't escape unscathed.  The odd thing about this latest twist in Facebook's drama is that it's not truly new but more an example of past practices coming back to haunt it. The hoovering of Facebook user data by offshoots of the mysterious Cambridge Analytica was a result of since-ended permissive policies at Facebook that allowed outsiders who had permission to tap information from some Facebook users to also then gain access to information about their friends and friends of friends. Researchers, news organizations and others sounded the alarms loudly about the dangers of this earlier Wild West era of Facebook data collection. But that was years ago, when attitudes about Facebook and technology companies in general were different. Politicians, regulators, journalists and competitors are now watching everything Facebook does and are more willing to assume the worst about its actions and motives. This is a good thing. Maybe the pendulum has swung too far and everyone is over-hyping every Facebook misstep or rewriting history through a more sinister lens. It's still better than the alternative of ignoring the company's track record of putting its business interests ahead of the welfare of its users and the world.  The question now is how long does the current period of Facebook mistrust last. And will the company be damaged forever either from lost of trust, flight of advertisers or new types of regulatory burdens. I still don't know. I think back to the white-hot scrutiny on technology companies including Facebook after the revelations leaked by former government contractor Edward Snowden starting in 2013. It was a moment of reckoning about the vast sea of information held by a handful of powerful technology and telecom companies -- so potentially informative that the data were of great interest to U.S. intelligence agencies. And the leaks showed that Americans were more reliant than they ever imagined on a handful of companies that were determining what should or shouldn't be shared with the U.S. government.  I thought the Snowden leaks would be the end of the era of social media and the broader practices of companies whose mission was turning personal information into corporate riches. It was not. There was no sweeping regulatory shift -- no Dodd-Frank rule for technology companies. There was no significant erosion of user trust, at least not in the U.S. In the end, not that much changed for Google, Facebook and other companies caught up in what seemed like an inflection point at the time.  What has changed is that Facebook and other tech companies are bigger, powerful and more influential than they were even just in 2013. The stakes are simply higher. There is also more vigilance and awareness of Facebook's role in sowing misinformation and hatred in many parts of the globe. There's more public understanding, albeit vague, that Facebook knows so much about its users and isn't always a responsible steward of that information. So this time might be different for Facebook. But we've been here before, too, with few true repercussions. 


[w596]  Facebook ‘outraged’ by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica  				"The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said. 		 Facebook said on Wednesday the company was “outraged” after being “deceived” over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher.  Facebook stocks drop amid alleged data leak crisis “The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” the statement said. It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams “are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.” .


[w597] Alexander Nix suspended: Cambridge Analytics suspends its chief executive in data breach row   Cambridge Analytica suspends chief executive Alexander Nix in data breach row British lawmakers have summoned Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in connection with the allegations of data breach by Cambridge Analytica.  Cambridge Analytica, the British firm accused of using the private data of more than five crore Facebook users during United States President Donald Trump’s election campaign, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday. The move comes after more undercover recordings by Britain’s Channel4News emerged on Tuesday evening showing Nix talk about his company’s vast role in the Trump campaign. Nix also spoke of the use of a secret self-destructing email system, AFP reported. “There’s no evidence, there’s no paper trail, there’s nothing,” he said about the system, which can delete emails two hours after they have been read. Nix said the company’s research and analytics helped Trump win with a narrow margin of “40,000 votes” in three states, BBC reported. Cambridge Analytica’s board of directors said it has suspended Nix with “immediate effect, pending a full, independent investigation”, but added that his comments to the channel does not “represent the values or operations of the firm”. The firm has denied any wrongdoing. The Board has suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation. https://t.co/HV9Mb5eXIR — Cambridge Analytica (@CamAnalytica) March 20, 2018 Facebook chief summoned Meanwhile, a UK parliamentary committee has summoned Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg in connection with the alleged data breach by Cambridge Analytica, PTI reported. The summons to 33-year-old Zuckerberg was sent by Damian Collins, the chair of the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee. “It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process,” the letter to Zuckerberg read. “Given your commitment at the start of the new year to ‘fixing’ Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you.” The summons to the Facebook chief came after whistleblower Christopher Wylie – who worked with Cambridge Analytica – claimed that the firm collected data through a personality quiz on the social networking site, BBC reported. He said that while 2,70,000 people took the quiz, the data of several million users in the US was accessed without their consent. Cambridge Analytica then used this data to profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them, Wylie alleged. Other allegations Apart from using private data of million, Cambridge Analytica is also accused of using shell companies, sex workers, fake news and bribes to sway election outcomes in several countries, according to a report by the Channel4News . These claims were purportedly made by top executives to the channel’s undercover reporters. The channel also claims to have evidence of the firm’s officials boasting about having worked in election campaigns across the world, including India. The company’s executives purportedly told undercover reporters that they used methods including entrapping rival election candidates in fake bribery stings and hiring sex workers to seduce them. “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that do not necessarily need to be true as long as they are believed,” Nix is heard saying in the clips. Nix reportedly said the company found material on political opponents by sending “some girls around to the candidate’s house”, and Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well”.     


[w598]  Facebook 'outraged' by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica   Facebook 'outraged' by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica    San Francisco, Mar 21 Facebook said today the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher. "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said. It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams "are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.  Facebook said today the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher. "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said. It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams "are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue. 


[w599]  Cambridge Analytica, UK Firm in Facebook Row, Suspends CEO as Lawmakers Demand Answers  Cambridge Analytica, UK Firm in Facebook Row, Suspends CEO as Lawmakers Demand Answers 


[w601] 

[w602]   Your vote - caught in the web   As fears grow overseas over the way practitioners of political dark arts are embracing advanced digital technology, Insight looks at how social media, Facebook in particular, will play a greater role in political messaging in this year's election campaign. Voting and digital influence Photo: ( Supplied ) HTML5 Audio Flash version Flash version ends Scoop Media Cartel DFP Tag Click a link to play audio (or right-click to download) in either MP3 format . Listen to the full Insight documentary here Even a casual observer will probably have noticed the adverts that appear in your social media feeds and internet browsers have become increasingly personal over the last couple of years or so. For example, after discussing the illness of a close relative with other family members online you might be served an advert for the services of a funeral director. While this so-called "microtargetting" of advertising could be a welcome convenience for some, there is a disturbing element of intrusion. Extreme examples include the voter suppression and attack ads seen in Britain's Brexit referendum, its recent snap election, and in the US presidential election that against most expectations installed Donald Trump in the White House. A common factor in all three of those campaigns was the winners' use of a data analytics consultancy called Cambridge Analytica. The company boasts of its ability to harvest voter information on a large scale, much of it from social media platforms including Facebook, and to process it to construct psychological profiles. Those profiles reveal voters' emotional triggers, which are in turn exploited in adverts served back to them, often through their social media news feeds. While Cambridge Analytica has made recent overtures to Australian politicians, it doesn't appear to be working with any New Zealand political parties at present. Like it or not, this technology is going to influence which adverts and social media posts from political parties the punters will see during this year's election campaign in New Zealand. New Zealand political parties will be using a combination of their own data sources and analytics, and those offered by the likes of Facebook and Google, to better target ads and posts in the next two months. National Party campaign manager Steven Joyce told Insight Facebook and other online channels had become more and more important over each of the five elections he worked on. "I think we're now at the point where a lot of things that happen in social media can have a bigger impact on the way people perceive political parties than some of the traditional media." In terms of targeting National's Facebook advertising, Mr Joyce said his campaign would rely on the audience segmentation services the social media company itself offers. Vaughn Davis runs Auckland advertising and social media company the Goat Farm, and said everything people did on Facebook was captured stored and measured. "This is Facebook's resource, this is what they own". "All they sell is us and they do a really good job of selling us by having rich information about our behaviours online. So if I want a very specific voter, swing voter or non voter even, I can enter my requirements into my Facebook advertising targeting tools and my ad will be served to those people." Labour Party head of digital Andrew Burns explained to Insight his party's campaign would be targeting potential Labour voters among Facebook's 2.9 million New Zealand users. "We're able to put in the types of people we're targeting, the people we think are likely to swing to Labour, or the people we need to get at, directly into Facebook. "Facebook hashes that data so they don't know who those people are and they identify a whole lot of Facebook profiles that they think are similar to those people, and from there we can segment that data." But Facebook's growing influence as a political messaging platform has been fuelling concerns overseas. In the United Kingdom this year those concerns led Sam Jeffers to set up Who Targets Me to monitor when social media data was used during the recent snap election. About 12,000 people signed up and downloaded Who Targets Me's application which allowed them to collect information about how individuals were targeted with Facebook ads and posts. He said his group's central concern was around the micro targeted or "dark" ads, often ephemeral and only seen by a selected group of users. He said that meant any misleading or untruthful claims they might contain were less likely to be discussed widely and challenged. "There's no reason that this stuff should be dark or opaque to people. There's no reason we should have election campaigns held in secret using targeted data, ads that other people can't see. "The thing that dawned on us over time was that it would be as straightforward for Facebook to just publish ads that are political, or have the Electoral Commission force Facebook to do that, and we would actually be able to see what's going on here." Online political advertising, particularly those shown only to a select group and which are difficult to capture for later scrutiny, could also throw up legal issues. Otago University electoral law expert Andrew Geddis said New Zealand's electoral laws had been written in a media neutral way. Any paid political messaging - whether in print, broadcast or online - were subject broadly to same rules. "One of the questions we might see - as things do move online, and as anonymous speech becomes a little easier, and as information can be distributed much quicker and much more easily - is whether enforcement is going to be as easier and as possible as they were in the old media world. Facebook's public relations representatives told RNZ: "If New Zealanders believe that they encounter political content in New Zealand that contravenes New Zealand law, they should refer this, in the first instance, to the Electoral Commission. We can then work with the Commission to address any concerns." New Zealand's chief electoral officer Alicia Wright said the Electoral Commission was ready for whatever came its way in the online space this election. "The principles that underpin the regime and how we work are around openness, around transparency, being very clear about who is saying what, where the money is coming from, that there is a level playing field and things are fair. "Those principles apply irrespective of the medium that we're in. There may be some unique and different things that come up and we'll work those through, post the election.'' But Professor Val Hooper - a lecturer in marketing, research methodology, consumer and buyer behaviour and information systems management at Victoria University - said regulators like the Electoral Commission would always be playing catch-up when it came to regulating emerging technology. "It always is long process to get that finalised and implemented and by then a whole new host of things have developed that need some sort of guiding policy." That could make the work of grassroots groups like Who Targets Me, all the more important. Jeffers said there was an issue about regulation, "and I think it's one of the things that fuelled interest in our project". "People were just like 'this stuff is very ephemeral, it can just disappear and therefore people can make false claims or spend too much money, or use data in a questionable way and there won't really be a way to track that in the future'. "So I think we were among the first people that was able to get a decent picture of what was going on and we hope that the parties modified their behaviour appropriately, chose to fit more within the law than they might otherwise have done." The Goat Farm's Vaughn Davis also suggested its up to voters themselves to curb the power of Facebook and other online platforms and their clients to sway elections. "The way forward is for us as citizens of the internet, and that's what we all are, to educate ourselves and our families that what we're seeing through that Facebook newsfeed is curated - whether it's by human or computer - and to understand the difference between an ad and an organic story from your friends and sometimes it's hard to tell. "Long term maybe this is something we need to look at as a society and say 'well, if this is our view of the world and it's being controlled by some publicly listed company in California, do we want some control or some transparency round that?'." 

[w603] 

[w605] 

[w606]  Claim UK firm played key role in Trump campaign  Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix. Photo: The Washington Post via Getty Images The suspended head of UK-based political consultancy Cambridge Analytica reportedly claimed in secretly recorded video that his company played a decisive role in the 2016 election campaign of President Donald Trump.  US President Donald Trump.  British broadcaster Channel 4 News mounted a "sting operation" in which it secretly recorded Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix saying he had met the then Republican presidential candidate "many times" and that his firm played a central role in the final months of the campaign. "We did all the research. We did all the data. We did all the analytics. We did all the targetting. We ran all the digital campaign and our data informed their strategy," Nix told an undercover reporter during a meeting in a London hotel. Brad Parscale, the 2016 Trump campaign’s main digital adviser who dealt regularly with Cambridge Analytica, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Parscale was recently named manager of Trump’s 2020 re-election campaign. Nix was suspended by the board of directors of Cambridge Analytica on Tuesday, the company said shortly before the second part of the British news programme's expose on the company. The London-based company's statement said: "In the view of the board, Mr Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation." Nix also was recorded by Channel 4 saying that Cambridge Analytica did not have to reveal to U.S. investigators anything about the company's foreign political campaign clients. If asked, he said he would respond: "We say 'none of your business'." "I am absolutely convinced that they have no jurisdiction," he said. Nix was also dismissive about the testimony he gave to the US House Intelligence Committee late last year. "The Republicans ask three questions in five minutes. Done. The Democrats ask two hours of questions," he said. "They are politicians, they are not technical, they don't understand how it works. They don't understand that the candidate is never involved, he's told what to do by the campaign team." The company named Julian Malins, a well-known British commercial barrister, to lead an independent investigation into Nix's actions.  Pressure on Facebook's Zuckerberg Meanwhile, US Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said on Tuesday that Facebook Inc chief executive Mark Zuckerberg should testify in Congress about his company's treatment of users' data. "Fifty million people lost their privacy," Feinstein told reporters at the US Senate, amid mounting calls in Congress for the social media company to account for the mining of its users' personal data by the political consultancy hired by Trump's campaign. "I think that we ought to have the head of Facebook, not their lawyer, not their number two, but their number one, come... state if they're really prepared to lead the industry to some controls that prevent all this from happening," she said. State attorneys general for Massachusetts and New York sent a letter to Facebook on Tuesday demanding information about personal data that ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica, a person familiar with the matter said. The letter, part of a joint investigation by the two states, requests documents about violations of Facebook's terms of service, as well as copies of all communications between Facebook and Cambridge Analytica and a host of other materials, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 

[w607]      Analysis: Cambridge Analytica's reach went far beyond the US elections  Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, leaves the offices in central London.            American voters have big questions about what role Cambridge Analytica, a London-based data firm, may have played in the 2016 election of US President Donald Trump. The company, which consulted for Trump during the campaign, was rocked by reports from the New York Times and Britain's Observer that it had improperly acquired data from Facebook users - prompting Facebook to ban the firm from its platform and British authorities to demand an explanation. But Cambridge Analytica may be an issue not only for Americans and Britons. The firm claims to have worked in a wide range of countries, including Australia, Brazil, Kenya, Malaysia and Mexico, and politicians in several of them are calling for investigations of the company's work. That list comes directly from the company's representatives, who were recently filmed by an undercover reporter from Britain's Channel 4 News . The journalist presented himself as a potential client, a representative of a wealthy Sri Lankan family eager to increase its political influence. During meetings over four months, Cambridge Analytica employees touted their work worldwide. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Although criticism of Cambridge Analytica focus on its alleged use of data harvested from social media sites, the firm's chief executive, Alexander Nix, appeared to condone using bribes and sexual blackmail to help swing elections. "Please don't pay too much attention to what I'm saying," Nix said over drinks with Channel 4's reporter at a West London hotel. "I'm just giving you examples of what can be done and what has been done." Cambridge Analytica was founded in 2013, but it is affiliated with an older company called SCL Group, an established British firm that has operated since 1993. According to its website, SCL Group has "conducted behavioural change programmes in over 60 countries," describing itself as a service that provides data, analytics and strategy to "governments and military organisations worldwide." SCL Group formed Cambridge Analytica five years ago to participate in American politics; the company is partly owned by Robert Mercer, an American hedge-fund manager and billionaire. But the company's website lists offices in Malaysia and Brazil along with those the United States and Britain, and its activities extend far beyond US borders. Watch the full documentary here #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA https://t.co/YzCJIPZser — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 KENYA Cambridge Analytica's alleged role in last year's chaotic Kenyan elections already has come under scrutiny. Last year, the firm refused to confirm to Kenyan reporters what role it was playing there, and its website refers only to its work in data analysis and surveys during the 2013 election cycle. But in Channel 4's undercover footage, Mark Turnbull, the managing director of Cambridge Analytica Political Global, said the company "ran" Kenyatta's campaigns in 2013 and 2017. Related articles: EU officials put heat on Zuckerberg 21 Mar, 2018 8:16am  Bombshell video sting on data firm 20 Mar, 2018 10:02am "We have re-branded the entire party twice, rewritten their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys," Turnbull said, later adding that the firm had been involved in "just about every element of his campaign." Kenyatta won the August election, the result of which was contested by the opposition and then annulled by Kenya's Supreme Court. Kenyatta then won the October revote after his challenger, Raila Odinga, refused to participate. As in previous years, protests and violence broke out around the elections. At least 92 Kenyans died. The full #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered documentary - secret filming by @Channel4News reveals election tricks https://t.co/EW3uLuhzON — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 19, 2018 Last year's elections were especially noteworthy for the use of social-media-friendly attack ads, a powerful new medium in the country. Privacy International, a London-registered charity, found that an American digital media company called Harris Media LLC had helped created these online campaigns for Kenyatta. Like Cambridge Analytica, Harris Media worked on the Trump campaign in 2016, and the Texas-based firm also has worked for far-right groups such as Alternative for Germany in Europe. Kenyan opposition leaders are now calling for an inquiry into Cambridge Analytica's involvement in Kenyan politics, and other nations are likely to follow suit regarding their own elections. MALAYSIA Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak has denied claims that his government worked with Cambridge Analytica, instead accusing his rival Mahathir Mohamad's son of using its services. AUSTRALIA Australian political parties also have denied using the firm, although a former minister responsible for cybersecurity told SBS that he had met Nix and other Cambridge Analytica representatives at a "private dinner." INDIA In India, there has been renewed scrutiny of SCL Group's 2010 work in an assembly election in the state of Bihar. The Hindustan Times also reported that Cambridge Analytica and its Indian partner have been in talks with both the governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the opposition Indian National Congress ahead of national elections next year. This is what happened when @Channel4News confronted Cambridge Analytica bosses about entrapment earlier today. The company has since suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix over the secret filming revelations, pending full investigation. pic.twitter.com/BkcHEPR88K — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 The full extent of such work is unknown. In footage from Channel 4, Turnbull suggested that Cambridge Analytica had used "a different organiSation to run a very, very successful project in an eastern European country," adding that it had "ghosted in, did the work, ghosted out and produced really, really good material." The country was not named. Nix pushed back against Channel 4's report over the weekend, saying that his talk of bribery and other underhanded tactics captured on video were "ludicrous hypothetical scenarios" designed to get the measure of a potential client. But broader global scrutiny of the company's work is now inevitable - and companies such as Facebook, which helped provide Cambridge Analytica with troves of data about voters worldwide, could face a reckoning, as well.  


[w608]     Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess  Social networks have shot themselves in the foot by losing user trust.           The Cambridge Analytica and Facebook mess that's unfolding this week will change how people think about and use social media, and bring in greater scrutiny of the networks as well. On the surface, it's a good thing because not even the social networks seem to understand what they're doing, connecting millions of people everywhere to one another and to companies that can siphon up their data. Most people who aren't developers have probably never heard of Facebook's Graph Application Programming Interface (API) through which coders get the very detailed information about everyone and their friends. Graph API and other Facebook features are extremely powerful tools. In the wrong hands, they can be abused to sway elections it seems. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Cambridge Analytica created psychological profiles for some 50 million people through an app that just 270,000 people used, purportedly for academic research, but it allegedly ended up as psy-ops tools for swaying elections around the world. Note that Cambridge Analytica broke no laws or even Facebook's terms and conditions for using the API. This is how it was meant to be used, but not what users consented to. Unwinding the mess and wrestling back control over your information will be a very difficult balancing act though. Is it even possible to undo the data collection by app companies? Looking at my own Facebook account, I've given 60 apps permission to access it and therefore, my data. I could revoke permission to the apps, but the data cat's out of the bag and my information is somewhere else. Where it is I don't know, nor do I know what it's being used for. Deleting apps from Facebook only means they don't get any new data. If you want to check or delete what Facebook data they have, you need to contact the app owner which in many cases requires logging in with Facebook. Related articles: How Facebook apps get permission to stalk you 21 Mar, 2018 4:57am  Two words Facebook boss lives to regret 20 Mar, 2018 8:25pm  Bombshell video sting on data firm 20 Mar, 2018 10:02am  Facebook stocks plunge as pressure mounts on Zuckerberg 20 Mar, 2018 7:00am If you remember the name of the app that you deleted, and where it came from that is. You could also turn off the Facebook Platform of services and tools completely, and halt Facebook's integration of your data with millions of websites around the world. That'll break your use of heaps of apps and again, won't delete existing data held by them. Delete your Facebook account? Probably not going to help, as the social network has "shadow profiles" on non-users and infers data on these through their friends who are active on Facebook. It's not clear that it's better if the pendulum swings towards users and social networks become regulated. On the one hand, we don't want surveillance capitalism and information warfare via social networks. However, on the other hand, from a freedom of speech point of view, is it desirable that social networks limit what can be published on them, whether it's good or bad? That data can be captured and easily linked to individuals and specific groups of people, and that can be used for good, and for bad. Getting control over your data feels like an important right to individuals, but the thought of information troves being instantly deletable makes historians, journalists, sociologists and scientists go green around the gills. This is especially the case if politicians and public figures were able to delete material to avoid transparency. Law enforcement and intelligence agencies wouldn't be happy either if criminals and spies could remove their spoors from the net just like that. Instagram provides an easy way for cops to keep track of bikie gang members and what they're up - check out some #hashtags of popular gangs and see for yourself. Whatever happens, social networks have shot themselves in the foot by losing user trust. After scandals such as Cambridge Analytica, people will become more circumspect with what they put online, and how they use social media. This in turn will hit social networks as their data will become less rich and valuable. Which is fair enough. Enormous data repositories such as Facebook and the firms that tap into them show us why we need to dial back the power of social media. The data on users that Cambridge Analytica acquired was collected legitimately under Facebook's rules at the time. This is what I referred to above, and Facebook has acknowledged the very same. Facebook has now accused the researcher who collected the data in 2013, Aleksandr Kogan, of having violated its policies by sharing the information with third parties. Kogan does not believe he violated Facebook's policies however. Despite the policies to prevent information misuse by developers, Facebook's former executive in charge of data policy violations between 2011 and 2012, Sandy Parakilas, said the social network had very few ways to discover abuses however, or to act on ones it found. This is borne out in Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg's post today, in which he says the social network only found out about the alleged violation of its policies by Cambridge Analytica in 2015 through journalists. Zuckerberg acknowledges that at the time, Facebook freely allowed access to the data of the friends of the people who had downloaded apps. "Given the way our platform worked at the time this meant Kogan was able to access tens of millions of their friends' data," Zuckerberg said. As a result of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Facebook will further tighten its rules and reduce the amount of data developers can access, to prevent further abuse.    

[w609] 

[w610]      New sting video raises questions about Cambridge Analytica's elections work  Pedestrians pass the building that houses the offices of Cambridge Analytica in London.            One challenge in assessing claims made by Cambridge Analytica in undercover videos released by Britain's Channel 4 News is that the firm, by its nature, misrepresents the truth. It's a political and marketing firm that purports to be able to help clients target specific people with specific messages based on detailed psychological profiles of their behaviour. But, in practice, Cambridge seems instead to focus on fairly typical marketing efforts. In 2005, the online magazine Slate described the then-new parent company of Cambridge, SCL Group, as "simply hawking a flashier version of propaganda." Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Reporting on Cambridge in recent months doesn't seem to deviate from that descriptor by much. Yesterday, Channel 4 News released video featuring Cambridge CEO Alexander Nix encouraging sting operations involving bribes and paid sex in an effort to swing a campaign in Sri Lanka. Today, a new video that deals specifically with Cambridge's work in the United States during the 2016 election raises more significant questions about the role the firm played. Cambridge was hired by the Donald Trump campaign in June 2016, as Trump's push to the general election started to slowly organise. The rationale behind that hire appears to be in large part to secure the support of the wealthy Mercer family, which helped found and fund Cambridge and which, ultimately, did mobilise behind Trump's candidacy. Reporter: “So the candidate is the puppet?" Cambridge Analytica: “Always.” EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump's campaign consultants secretly filmed discussing US politics. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/Q8dfb1kCaN — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 There are a few questions that have surrounded Cambridge's role in Trump's campaign. For one thing, the firm was employed both by Trump's campaign and by a pro-Trump independent group called Make America Number 1 PAC. That group was a vehicle for the Mercer family to spend unlimited funds advocating for Trump's candidacy. Legally, outside PACs running what are called "independent expenditure" efforts, or IEs, can't coordinate on strategy with campaigns themselves. The rationale is simple: If an outside group that has no contribution limits could work with a campaign on strategy and tactics, there is essentially no point in having campaign limits at all. The campaign could simply tell the IE how to spend all of its millions of dollars. Related articles: Controversial data firm Cambridge Analytica linked with The Warehouse   Firm had reach beyond US elections  There are also questions about whether any elements of the Trump campaign or its allies coordinated with Russian efforts to interfere in the election. McClatchy reported in July that special counsel Robert Mueller's investigators were looking into whether anyone from Trump's team or Cambridge coordinated message-targeting with Russian actors.         That overlap got a boost last month when Mueller charged 13 Russians with illegally trying to influence Americans on social media during the election. It included detailed descriptions of how the Russians sought to foment division by highlighting controversial subjects and, specifically, to tamp down turnout by encouraging black voters to abstain from voting. Shortly before the election, that same strategy was highlighted in a Bloomberg report that focused on Trump's digital team - a team that involved Cambridge. "We have three major voter suppression operations underway," an unnamed senior official told Bloomberg 's reporters. "They're aimed at three groups Clinton needs to win overwhelmingly: idealistic white liberals, young women, and African Americans." The campaign later denied that this was the case. Watch the full documentary #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered https://t.co/EW3uLuhzON — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 All of which brings us to new footage released by Channel 4 News today. In it, Nix - who was suspended as Cambridge's chief executive earlier in the day - and managing director Mark Turnbull describe the specific efforts they undertook on behalf of Trump's campaign. Turnbull explained that campaigns try to stay on the high road, instead letting outside groups pick up negative information about their opponents. The language he used was interesting: "Sometimes you can use proxy organisations who are already there," he said. "You feed them. . . . We use them - feed them the material and they do the work." Going out on a limb: role of big data overstated in last few elections. Obama & Trump won electoral victories largely because of messages they conveyed, not media they used. — Jeet Heer (@HeerJeet) March 20, 2018 Data analytics are important part of modern campaign. But, just one part. Most important are candidate quality and salient message. The best algorithms or 'psychological mapping' can't make up for bad candidates and bad message. — amy walter (@amyewalter) March 20, 2018 "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet and then watch it grow," he continued. "Give it a little push every now and again over time to watch it take shape. And so this stuff infiltrates the online community and expands but with no branding - so it's unattributable, untrackable." That split between campaigns staying clean and outside groups going dirty isn't new. But what Turnbull suggests - that they quietly leak information to those outside groups - is much more questionable. As a contractor with Trump's campaign, Cambridge can't coordinate with any outside groups - even outside groups for which Cambridge is also working. (Cambridge told Channel 4 News that there was a strict "firewall" inside the organisation that kept information from the Trump side away from information on the Make America Number 1 side.) Nor could Cambridge's Trump team give strategic advice or information to other outside groups that were involved in supporting Trump's campaign or in opposing Hillary Clinton's. It is entirely circumstantial, but we have to note the following coincidence. On the tape, Turnbull celebrates Cambridge's "Defeat Crooked Hillary" ads, produced on behalf of Make America Number 1. The Os in "crooked" were transformed into handcuffs - imagery that mirrored Russian interference efforts. The whole "only needed to sway 70k votes" to change 2016 is a bit of a misdirection when we're talking about national issues like Comey or Cambridge Analytica. We're really talking about shifting the popular vote 1 percentage point. 1/ — Sean T at RCP (@SeanTrende) March 20, 2018 Among the more complicated schemes the Russians deployed, according to Mueller's indictment, was hiring an American to dress as Clinton in prison garb and stand on display at a campaign event in a makeshift cage. The Russians, it seems, picked up the criminal-Clinton idea from the bloodstream. Any question of Cambridge advocating improper communication between campaign efforts was reinforced by Nix's description of using an email system that deleted messages after a short period - eliminating a paper trail. It was one reason that he appeared to be unconcerned about federal investigators unwinding the firm's campaign work. Another reason was that he was dismissive of the investigators. Nix criticised the House Intelligence Committee's now-ended investigation into Russian interference efforts, noting that his appearance before the committee by videoconference lasted five minutes and consisted of three questions. "They're politicians, they're not technical," he said. "They don't understand how it works." “There’s no paper trail… [We set our] emails with a self-destruct timer.” EXCLUSIVE: Trump’s election consultants secretly filmed revealing how they cover their tracks. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/63M4clwAkq — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Later in the conversation, Nix suggested that the Channel 4 News reporters - posing as Sri Lankan campaign employees - set up email accounts using Protonmail, a Switzerland-based company that automatically destroys emails after a set period. Last week, the Intercept 's Sam Biddle reported that an Administration employee, Ryan McAvoy, accidentally left his own Protonmail account information on White House stationery at a nearby bus stop. Again, it's hard to determine where Cambridge Analytica's self-promotion ends and where an accurate description of what it undertook begins. The firm denied any allegations of impropriety when approached by Channel 4 News , including claims that it had actually helped elect Trump. "CA has never claimed it won the election for President Trump," its statement read. "This is patently absurd. We are proud of the work we did on that campaign, and have spoken in many public forums about what we consider to be our contribution to the campaign." Watch the full documentary here #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA https://t.co/YzCJIPZser — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Nix had claimed that Cambridge "did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy." That, Turnbull said at another point, was more than enough to make up the narrow margin of difference in three Midwestern states. On November 6, 2016, two days before the election, TechCrunch interviewed Nix. "When we got to Trump's campaign in June 2016, whenever it was," Nix said, "there it was there was five and a half months till the elections." The firm, he claimed, simply didn't have time to work its magic by creating those specific psychological profiles. Of course, at that point, Nix probably thought Trump was going to lose. The smart marketing play was to argue that his firm didn't have time to work its craft. A few days later - and when talking to Channel 4 News ' undercover reporters - the smart play was to take credit for the win. After the videotape of that conversation came out? Cambridge's role is again downplayed.   


[w611]      Mark Zuckerberg has gone quiet during growing Facebook backlash  CEO Mark Zuckerberg has remained silent and was reportedly AWOL during a crisis meeting at the company's HQ this week to talk about its role in the scandal.            Facebook remains in damage control in the face of global criticism over how a third party allegedly used data from 50 million user profiles to target them with messages to sway political elections. The story has rocked the social media giant which is having its worst week since going public in 2012. CEO Mark Zuckerberg has remained silent and was reportedly AWOL during a crisis meeting at the company's HQ this week to talk about its role in the scandal.         Another whistleblower has since come forward saying the data analysis firm at the centre of the firestorm, Cambridge Analytica, is far from the only such company to have harvested the data of unwitting Facebook users. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Sandy Parakilas, the platform operations manager at Facebook responsible for policing data breaches by third-party software developers between 2011 and 2012 told The Guardian Tuesday that hundreds of millions of Facebook users are likely to have had their private information exploited in the same manner. "My concerns were that all of the data that left Facebook servers to developers could not be monitored by Facebook, so we had no idea what developers were doing with the data," he said.         The former employee said he "always assumed there was something of a black market" for Facebook data given to third party developers but company execs preferred not to know about it. His comments are by no means revelatory but they come at a time when the public is more eager than ever to sit up and take notice. A wave of people have taken to social media to declare they have deleted their profile as the public backlash against Facebook's handling of user data grows. Even the co-founder of WhatsApp — now owned by Facebook — took to Twitter to tell his followers to delete their profile. Related articles: Two words Facebook boss lives to regret 20 Mar, 2018 8:25pm  How Facebook apps get permission to stalk you 21 Mar, 2018 4:57am  Juha Saarinen: Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess 21 Mar, 2018 5:00am  EU officials put heat on Zuckerberg 21 Mar, 2018 8:16am It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 FACEBOOK'S PETTY RESPONSE Since the fallout, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has gone quiet. But it is one facet of the company's response - a decision to ban the whistleblower who broke the story from its platform — that has been most widely criticised. "Suspended by Facebook. For blowing the whistle. On something they have known privately for 2 years," the Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie wrote on Twitter after he helped break the story. A picture posted to social media this morning showed how the messages he previously sent to friends on the service have now been deleted on the grounds of being "abusive" or "spam," with Wylie confirming "I've been deleted." He has also been banned from the Facebook-owned Instagram platform. A friend of Facebook whistleblower @chrisinsilico shows me his posts to friends on Messenger are now blocked by Facebook as abusive or spam pic.twitter.com/zveQW8tbDK — Damian Collins (@DamianCollins) March 20, 2018 Wylie said he regrets working on the company's software which exploited peoples' "inner demons" to target them with specific politically charged messages. On Tuesday he told a packed audience at the Frontline Club, a media organisation in London, that he is sorry he had worked for Cambridge Analytica. When asked if he would compare himself to other whistleblowers, such as Daniel Ellsberg or Edward Snowden, he reportedly demurred, saying his decision to come forward was more about contrition. It's been a good 48 hours by now. Mark Zuckerberg hasn't had a chance to post anything about this controversy on his Facebook page. pic.twitter.com/IlEfY6NY2e — Graham Cluley (@gcluley) March 20, 2018 'THERE'S NO PAPER TRAIL, THERE'S NOTHING' The story of Cambridge Analytica's antics has engulfed the social media giant but this is the world we live in now. What the data analysis firm, and what other companies like it do shouldn't necessarily come as a shock to anybody. Using data to build sophisticated profiles on segments of the population to target them with advertising (or in this case politically themed messages or fake news) has become the aim of the game for many companies in the digital age. Big data is big business and Facebook just happens to have some of the richest data sets. But the dubious way in which Cambridge Analytica acquired it, technically in violation of Facebook's rules, and the particularly nefarious ends to which they used it has been the most troubling part of the story. Cambridge Analytica's board of directors have now suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending an investigation after he boasted of various unsavoury services to an undercover reporter for Britain's Channel 4 News.         In its third TV segment covering the story, this morning Channel 4 News broadcast clips that showed Nix saying his data-mining firm played a major role in securing Donald Trump's victory in the 2016 presidential election. Nix said the firm handled "all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting" and said the firm used emails with a "self-destruct timer" to make its role more difficult to trace. "There's no evidence, there's no paper trail, there's nothing," he said. the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation." The company has denied wrongdoing and Trump's campaign has said it didn't use Cambridge's data.          

[w613] 

[w614] The Cambridge Analytica-Facebook debacle explained  What is Cambridge Analytica?  by Late on Friday, Facebook made an unexpected announcement: The data firm Cambridge Analytica, hyped as integral to President Donald Trump's election – and trying to drum up work in Canberra –  was suspended from the social network for using data collected improperly from Facebook users . It is a complicated issue that many people might have missed, given the timing of the announcement. With that in mind, here is an overview of the groups involved, what happened – and what it means. 1. What is Cambridge Analytica? Cambridge Analytica is a data firm that promises its customers insights into consumer or voter behaviour.  Christopher Wylie, who helped found the data firm Cambridge Analytica and worked there until 2014.  Andrew Testa On the commercial side, that means tools like "audience segmentation" – breaking out advertising audiences into smaller groups – and then targeting advertisements to those groups on "multiple platforms". Advertisement Related Quotes  5 years 1 Day Last updated: Last updated:   ASX Announcements   On the political side, it is much the same thing, with one tweak. While advertisers generally target consumers as groups, political campaigns need to target specific people – registered voters receptive to a potential message. "Combining the precision of data analytics with the insights of behavioural psychology and the best of individually addressable advertising technology," the company's website pledges, "you can run a truly end-to-end campaign." And that is why Cambridge Analytica was created. Robert Mercer is a prominent conservative donor whose public profile rose sharply over the past few years. He and his daughter Rebekah invested millions in efforts to reshape conservative politics, funding Citizens United, the anti-mainstream-media Media Research Centre and Breitbart News. In 2013, Robert Mercer partnered with a British firm called SCL Group and its elections director Alexander Nix to test SCL's methodology in Virginia's governor's race, as The New York Times reported. Their candidate, Republican Ken Cuccinelli, lost. But the Mercers moved forward with a political data strategy anyway, partnering with Nix to create Cambridge Analytica, which would use SCL's data and methodology for political work.  Cambridge Analytica, a company part-owned by US billionaire Robert Mercer, used big data to help elect US President Donald Trump and secure victory for the Brexit "leave" campaign.  AP 2. What prompted the Facebook suspension? The key part of the Cambridge Analytica sales pitch is that "insights of behavioral psychology" line. There are lots of data companies that can tell you who's registered to vote, and there are lots of companies that compile consumer data on those same voters. This, in fact, was an instrumental part of Facebook's sales pitch to political campaigns (back before it quietly buried that pitch in the wake of questions about Russian interference in the 2016 election). After the 2014 election, we wrote about how Facebook offered campaigns a place to overlap their voter data (who's registered and basic demographic information) with Facebook's vast array of data on its users' behaviour. While most firms that collect data on consumer behaviour do so by tracking the bread crumbs we leave around our consumer culture – grocery store rewards cards, magazine subscriptions and so on – Facebook has the advantage that so many Americans tell the company precisely what they like, by quite literally clicking the "like" button.  Facebook's database of personal information may be the largest in the world, given that nearly a third of the globe has an account with the company.  Reuters Facebook's database of personal information may be the largest in the world, given that nearly a third of the globe has an account with the company. If you are a company looking to provide data services, you would justifiably be jealous of the information Facebook possesses. So Facebook (recognising an opportunity when it sees it) provides a way for software developers to build on top of their platform, allowing other companies to use their data under certain conditions. It used to be fairly trivial, in fact, for developers to build an application that would then pull a great deal of information from the site, including information about your friends' activity. In May 2014, the site announced it was tightening that access, beginning the following year. That change came slightly too late. To apply its "insights of behavioural psychology" to national politics, as the Mercers intended, the SCL/Cambridge team needed a lot of information about a lot of Americans. According to the Times 's report, a Cambridge employee named Christopher Wylie encountered a researcher at Cambridge University named Aleksandr Kogan. Kogan built an application that leveraged Facebook's tools to pull information from the site and then pitched its use using Amazon's Mechanical Turk, a tool that allows developers to hire humans (sometimes then referred to as "turkers") to do simple tasks for small fees.  Robert Mercer, the co-founder of Cambridge Analytica and a keen card player.  The Intercept reported on how it worked last year. "The task posted by 'Global Science Research' appeared ordinary, at least on the surface. The company offered turkers $1 or $2 to complete an online survey. But there were a couple of additional requirements as well. First, Global Science Research was only interested in American turkers. Second, the turkers had to download a Facebook app before they could collect payment. Global Science Research said the app would 'download some information about you and your network ... basic demographics and likes of categories, places, famous people, etc from you and your friends.' " Global Science Research was Kogan. Using this method, he gathered information on tens of millions of Americans. (The Times says more than 50 million; other outlets say 30 million.) That information was then used to build out SCL/Cambridge Analytica's profiles. In building his Facebook application, Kogan had pledged that his data collection was only for research purposes and that it would remain anonymised – not able to be linked to specific people. When The Guardian reported in late 2015 on the link between Kogan and Cambridge, it prompted Facebook to promise to investigate the situation. ( The Guardian 's story was pegged to Senator Ted Cruz's  presidential campaign using Cambridge Analytica for its voter contact efforts. Cruz was strongly supported by the Mercers, who also created well-funded outside groups to promote his candidacy.)  Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix.  Joshua Bright In its statement on Friday announcing the suspensions, Facebook carefully put the blame on Kogan misusing its tools and explained it had demanded in 2015 that Kogan, SCL and Cambridge delete its Facebook data. The suspension was prompted by learning last week – apparently after being contacted by the Times – that Cambridge was still in possession of some of the Facebook data. (The company denies that.) 3. Where does the Trump campaign fit into this? Trump's digital team was run by Brad Parscale, who last month was named campaign manager for Trump's 2020 effort. Trump's general election campaign was slow to get geared up after the primary and, by mid-2016, there was a debate over how to invest in digital marketing. Bolstered by Parscale's advocacy (and Jared Kushner's championing) the campaign hired Cambridge Analytica, over then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort's apparent objections. The decision may have been made easier, too, by Cambridge/SCL's role in the successful Brexit campaign in Britain the same month. As noted above, the Mercers had been hoping Cruz would be the Republican nominee. Once Trump won the Republican nomination, though, they shifted their focus. (The extent to which the hiring of Cambridge Analytica greased that transition is not clear.) They were reportedly instrumental in the August 2016 overhaul of Trump's campaign, recommending the hiring of both Stephen Bannon (from Breitbart) and Kellyanne Conway, who had been working for one of their pro-Cruz PACs. Over the last few months of the campaign, Parscale's team invested heavily in Facebook advertising, even hosting a Facebook employee at their Texas war room who helped guide their work. The advertising the campaign deployed was informed by Cambridge Analytica's data. Bloomberg reported on the data team shortly before the election and how Parscale managed the competing data from Cambridge and the Republican Party. "Parscale was building his own list of Trump supporters, beyond the RNC's reach," Bloomberg's Joshua Green and Sasha Issenberg wrote. "Cambridge Analytica's statistical models isolated likely supporters whom Parscale bombarded with ads on Facebook, while the campaign bought up email lists from the likes of Gingrich and Tea Party groups to prospect for others." 4. Where has Cambridge Analytica won elections?  Senator Ted Cruz's presidential campaign dropped Cambridge Analytica after finding it ineffective.  AP In most cases, it is very hard to identify one particular factor that made the difference in a political campaign. Despite the ubiquity of politicking, campaigns do not happen that often and, when they do, there are thousands of factors that make each contest unique. So analysing the effects of campaign tactics means perusing a small sample in which we are asked to compare apples to oranges to grapes to dogs to stars to love to six. This is hugely advantageous for political consulting firms because it is often hard to check their claims about how effective they are. Politicians are deeply superstitious and seize on their own and others' past successes to guide their decisions moving forward. What's more, the field of data-driven political persuasion is fairly new, meaning a company that can claim success in a realm many career politicians do not really understand has a huge marketing advantage. Say that you have cracked the code to targeting voters with specific messages, and a lot of campaigns will write you cheques. Cambridge Analytica has not been around that long, but they have been involved in several successful campaigns. There was Senator Thom Tillis' Republican Senate campaign in 2014, which he won by 1.5 points. There was the "Leave" campaign in the United Kingdom in 2016 which won by 3.8 points. And there was Trump, who lost the popular vote by 2.1 points but won the electoral college. There were also losing campaigns. Before Trump, the highest-profile effort Cambridge undertook was Cruz's – and he lost. Sure, he ended up in second place in the delegate count despite being fairly unpopular the year before, but his strategy was like Trump's: leverage a core base of support to ride out a crowded field of candidates. 


[w615] 

[w616] 

[w617] Facebook, Cambridge Analytica data breach: Carol Davidsen reveals Obama campaign’s data use  Former Facebook staffer, Obama campaign boss reveal concerns about Facebook data A FACEBOOK whistleblower has broken his silence as a key architect of Obama’s campaign revealed ‘creepy’ data they could access.  Facebook, Cambridge aware of data breach The Head of International Cyber Policy Center at ASPI Fergus Hanson has told Sky News, Facebook and Cambridge Analytica were aware of the data being used, as well as how it was being used. Mr Hanson says citizens need to be discerning in how they use these tools and how their data may be used against them.  A FORMER Facebook staffer responsible for policing data breaches inside the social media giant has broken his silence about the “horrifying” practices as outrage over user data grows. Sandy Parakilas worked as a Facebook platform operations manager between 2011 and 2012. He told The Guardian hundreds of millions of users are likely to have had their data unwittingly harvested by third party developers through a Friends Permission feature that left Facebook with “zero” control or oversight of user information. “Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on,” he said. Mr Parakilas said when he raised the issue with executives he was asked “Do you really want to see what you’ll find?” He told the newspaper he took that to mean that “Facebook was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening”. “They felt that it was better not to know. I found that utterly shocking and horrifying.” President Barack Obama’s campaign also targeted social media users. Picture: AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast. Mr Parakilas is due to give evidence to the UK government on Wednesday over what happened inside the social media giant that has since changed its policies and denies any wrongdoing. His comments come as a former digital adviser to President Obama revealed how the 2012 campaign was able to access extraordinary amounts of personal information through Facebook. Carol Davidsen, the Obama for America (OFA) former director of integration and media analytics, tweeted Facebook was “very candid” that it allowed the Democratic organisation to do certain things because it supported them politically. “Facebook was surprised we were able to suck out the whole social graph, but they didn’t stop us once they realised that was what we were doing,” she wrote in a series of tweets. MORE: What you need to know about the Facebook case “They came to [the] office in the days following election recruiting [and] were very candid that they allowed us to do things they wouldn’t have allowed someone else to do because they were on our side.” The woman named in 2013 as one of the “top 10 people in digital politics” by Business Insider said: “I am also 100 per cent positive that Facebook activity recruits and staffs people that are on the other side.” “I worked on all of the data integration projects at OFA. This was the only one that felt creepy, even though we played by the rules, and didn’t do anything I felt was ugly, with the data.” An example of how we used that data to append to our email lists. pic.twitter.com/VHhSukvXDY — Carol Davidsen (@cld276) March 19, 2018 Carol Davidsen said the 2012 Obama campaign was able to “scrape” Facebook user’s information. A Washington Post report on Tuesday claimed “thousands” of other developers including those behind game FarmVille and Tinder were also able to siphon information about Facebook users and their friends in order to understand their preferences. Facebook and UK research firm Cambridge Analytica are embroiled in a growing furore after whistleblower reports up to 50 million people may have had their data harvested for political purposes after some 270,000 people signed up to take an online quiz. MORE: The two words Zuckerberg regrets Both companies have denied any wrongdoing, however UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating allegations Cambridge Analytica gathered personal information in an unauthorised way and has asked Facebook executives to step aside. “Our advice to Facebook is to back away and let us go in and do our work,” she said. The news has been disastrous for Facebook leadership with politicians in the UK and US calling on founder Mark Zuckerberg to face up to questions in person, as shares in the company plunged nearly seven per cent. The US-based Federal Trade Commission is investigating how the two companies operated and has the power to issue fines of up to $US40,000 per user, if wrongdoing is found. Reports are also swirling about internal discord with the New York Times claiming Data Security boss Alex Stamos will step down by August. On Tuesday, he denied the reports saying: “I’m still fully engaged with my work at Facebook.” “It’s true that my role did change. I’m currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security,” he said. Cambridge Analytica's chief executive officer Alexander Nix suggested sending Ukrainian women to a candidates house in an online video, but said he was framed in entrapment and denied wrongdoing. Picture: AFP PHOTO / PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA Meanwhile Cambridge Analaytica executives hit back after they were recorded on hidden cameras apparently discussing the services they could offer . Footage secretly recorded by Britain’s Channel 4 News showed managing director Mark Turnbull speaking about “putting information into the bloodstream of the internet”. “It has to happen without anyone thinking ‘that’s propaganda,’ he said. “Because the moment you think that’s propaganda the next question is ‘who’s put that out?’ So we have to be very subtle.” MORE: The surprising info Facebook has on you CEO Alexander Nix suggested sending Ukrainian women around to the houses of political candidates in a honeytrap-style example of what “can be done and what has been done”. The company claims the footage amounted to “entrapment” and said it is not alone in using social media to extract information on users. “In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios,” Mr Nix said. “I’m aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honeytraps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose.” Facebook has denied wrongdoing but CEO Mark Zuckerberg is facing questions about his data policy and enforcement. 


[w618]  Now you can try Brave's publisher donation system on Chrome, too An independent programmer extension for Chrome and Firefox taps into Brave Software's system anonymous payments to websites and YouTubers.          Chrome  and Firefox users who want a taste of the Brave browser can now get one with an extension called Batify that makes donations to websites, YouTubers and Twitch video game streamers . The Batify extension for Chrome  and for Firefox keeps tabs on what websites you visit and routes anonymous monthly payments to them depending on how many times you visit each and how much time you spend there. It relies on Brave Software's system for publisher authentication, though, and the vast majority of publishers aren't registered to receive payments. It's an early sign that Brave isn't the only one interested in a new way to fund online publishers -- in the form of the basic attention token (BAT) , not actual dollars or pounds or euros. "I don't earn anything," said Batify developer Michael Volz, who's also working on an Opera version of the extension. "I did this because I'm fascinated by the idea of Brave and BAT, liked the technical challenge and wanted to contribute to the ecosystem." The idea of paying for stuff that's free online may surprise you, but it happens. In an age when we're tired of ads or worried about just exactly how free sites are using our personal information (looking at you, Facebook and Cambridge Analytica), paying for what you like offers a refreshingly honest relationship between audience and content producer. BAT is based on the same blockchain technology that underpins cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and ether. Brave is funded in large measure by a sale of BAT that raised tens of millions of dollars in 2017. But BAT's point isn't to be a general-purpose cryptocurrency, just a way advertisers and readers can pay publishers. And the startup wants its BAT payment network eventually to spread beyond its own browser. "We're pleased to see such developer experimentation as we've always envisioned BAT as a technology that can be used outside of the Brave browser," the company said in a statement. "In the future, we plan to make a supported [programming interface] available for use in other products to fuel the growth of the BAT ecosystem." Before you jump in too far, be aware that for now the wallet system Batify and Brave use is one-way for ordinary browser users. In other words, you can fund the wallet but not retrieve your money for now, only donate it to publishers. Brave blocks ads and behavior-tracking software that's common on the web by default, but it also lets you set up contributions to online publishers. Those contributions today are funded by Brave giveaways and whatever you choose to pay out of your own pocket, but eventually Brave expects to offer to to show ads that can supply funding, too. Those ads will be targeted by the browser itself to protect privacy but it won't be enabled by default. 

[w619]  'Catastrophic failure of process': MPs demand answers from Facebook 'Catastrophic failure of process': MPs demand answers from Facebook  'Catastrophic failure of process': MPs demand answers from Facebook   MPs have demanded Facebook's chief executive Mark Zuckerberg appear in Westminster to face questions about the Cambridge Analytica data scandal engulfing the internet giant. The call came as Cambridge Analytica suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after he was secretly filmed by Channel 4 News claiming the UK data firm played a central role in Donald Trump's election victory and boasting of how to use bribes and women to swing elections. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Photo: AP The British firm said Nix would be suspended pending a "full, independent investigation" into his comments and allegations, which it said did not reflect the company's values. Facebook has been put under growing pressure since it suspended Cambridge Analytica on Friday night. It has since been accused of failing to protect 50 million of its users whose data was obtained by Cambridge Analytica. The British firm denies it failed to delete the data when ordered to in 2015 and says it was not used in the 2016 US presidential election. Damian Collins, the chairman of the digital, culture, media and sport committee, wrote to Mr Zuckerberg yesterday calling on the tech billionaire to give evidence in person. Advertisement He said the committee had repeatedly questioned Facebook representatives as part of its inquiry into fake news and how social media may have been exploited to meddle in elections. Collins said Facebook representatives had "consistently understated" the risk to the public from companies who obtained data from the social network and said the group's answers on the matter had been misleading. He wrote: "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process. We are sure you will understand the need for a representative from right at the top of the organisation to address concerns." Damian Collins, chairman of UK House of Commons' digital culture and sport committee, has asked Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to face the House of Commons. Photo: Bloomberg Collins said he hoped Zuckerberg would appear, and gave him a deadline of Monday to respond. US Senator Dianne Feinstein, a member of the judiciary committee, also demanded Zuckerberg testify before the US Congress. Meanwhile, MPs will today question an ex-Facebook employee who claims many more users could have had data stolen using the same methods as Cambridge Analytica. Sandy Parakilas, a former operations manager, claimed he had warned superiors that Facebook was handing too much data over to third-party apps but that his efforts had gone unheeded. "We had no idea what developers were doing with the data," Parakilas told The Guardian . More pressure was put on Facebook last night as American regulators opened an investigation into the company. The US Federal Trade Commission is reportedly assessing whether it broke a 2011 settlement with the agency in which it agreed to obtain consent when sharing data. Facebook's shares fell for a second session yesterday, closing down nearly 3pc. Since the scandal emerged they have dropped by more than 9pc, with the company losing nearly $50bn in value. 


[w620] Cambridge Analytica scandal 'another nail in the coffin of trust'  The revelation that Cambridge Analytica breached Facebook rules to harvest up to 60 million user profiles for nefarious purposes is “just another nail in the coffin of trust” for the marketing industry, one of adland's leading thinkers has warned. Thinkerbell co-founder Adam Ferrier believes the saga will only compound marketers' fears of how they should manage and control the “copious amounts of data we all have”. Ferrier, who has a background in consumer psychology, tells AdNews there is a growing sense of anxiety in the industry that data security is “out of control” and that tech firms need to take a long-term view on innovation and “make sure things are fully thought through before being taken to market”. “What I find fascinating is that people are building new toys and not realising the impact that those toys have. They are not looking at the ripple on effect of the decisions that they make,” Ferrier says. “Facebook, just like any other organisation, is trying to work out the rules of data as we go.... [but] it is getting increasingly difficult to work that out. “People are building things with the intentions of doing good but they get easily usurped by people who use these platforms in destructive ways. It's getting more and more difficult to ensure that what you are doing isn't corrupted and I think Facebook is finding that out very quickly.” 'Nobody is in control' Ferrier says the breach of the rules by Cambridge Analytica “taps into that fear of who's in control” and that “nobody quite knows where the next loophole is”. “It makes it very apparent that nobody is really in control and really knows what's going on or how their system or their platform is going to be exploited or used. It raises everybody's anxiety,” he adds. “Self regulation in this industry is proving to be increasingly difficult.” In response to the revelations, Facebook has suspended the accounts of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, Strategic Communication Laboratories (SCL) and the whistleblower Christopher Wylie. Over the weekend, Wylie revealed to the Observer and New York Times the inner workings of Cambridge Analytica and how it breached Facebook policy to harvest millions of voter profiles for a propaganda campaign to promote US president Donald Trump during the 2016 US election. AdNews summarised the main allegations yesterday. Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie. Facebook's response In a blog , Facebook VP and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal explained that although Cambridge University professor Aleksandr Kogan legitimately gained access to individuals data through an app, he breached Facebook policy by sharing that data with a third party (Cambridge Analytica and SCL) as well as refusing Facebook's demands to delete the data when the social network discovered the scam in 2015. Since 2014, Facebook has allowed individuals to choose what information they share with app developers, such as details about their friends list or birthday. This raises questions about why Facebook ever allowed developers to access data from an app users friends list. In a Facebook post published yesterday, Facebook VP of AR/VR Andrew Bosworth explained that Facebook believed “every app could be social”. “Your calendar should have your events and your friends birthdays, your maps should know where your friends live, your address book should show their pictures. It was a reasonable vision but it didn't materialize the way we had hoped,” Bosworth said. “We made a change three years ago to limit developer access to detailed friend data. The extent of information Kogan's app accessed is no longer possible today.” Bosworth added that Facebook also decided against suspending Cambridge Analytica, SCL, Kogan and Wylie in 2015 because they had “certified in a legal document that they had deleted the data”. “We are serious about protecting our community and their data. This issue can no longer happen the way it did given what we fixed in the product three years ago, but that doesn't change what happened. It's a breach of trust,” Bosworth added. Ferrier believes the issue is another “wake-up call” that will leave Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg “genuinely mortified and confused” only a few months after he declared he would to fix Facebook. Zuckerberg's more immediate concerns could be to front up to UK Parliament. British MP Damian Collins, who is leading an inquiry into 'fake news', has summoned the Facebook boss to answer questions about the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Ferrier's point about trust is likely to come up. 

[w621]  Cambridge Analytica controversy: Australian political parties ramp up data campaigning Cambridge Analytica controversy: Australian political parties ramp up data campaigning  Cambridge Analytica controversy: Australian political parties ramp up data campaigning  It's election time and armies of political party volunteers are deployed to suburban streets across Australia to campaign for their candidates. But instead of going to the effort of hitting every home, the volunteers pull out tablets or phones and open an application pinpointing the residences where they will find the swinging voters they need to win over. A few clicks and the app goes deeper, containing a goldmine of valuable information about the person: their personal characteristics, the issues they care about, their declared political leanings. Welcome to politics in 2018. It's a combination of long-held fundamentals – persuasive policy messages, the importance of strong candidates, focusing on the right voters – with the rapidly advancing use of personal information and data science to deliver finely tuned, highly targeted campaigns.  Replay This type of campaigning has exploded over the past decade and is under renewed scrutiny following revelations about the United States-based Cambridge Analytica – a notorious Trump-aligned "big data" firm that is accused of accessing the personal data of 50 million Facebook users without authorisation and engaging in unethical tactics. Advertisement Cambridge Analytica has now set up shop in Australia but, even before these latest claims, appears to have had little luck convincing the country's major political parties to sign up. The firm has baggage from its origins and practices in the US, where it helped with the upset victory of President Donald Trump. But Cambridge Analytica is far from the only business involved in the booming data mining and micro-targeting sector. i360, a conservative-aligned platform funded by the US billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, is now being deployed in Australia and its practical value was on display in the South Australian election campaign over recent weeks. The state's Liberal Party has signed up with the service, which allows them to feed in information political parties have long collected about voters – electoral roll data, nuggets from their prior contact with a local MP, public statements on politics – with further insights gained from social media activity.  New South Australian Liberal Premier Stephen Marshall. Photo: AAP The end result is political parties delivering personalised messages to voters across social media and the more traditional channels such as door knocking, phone calls and direct mail. One Liberal insider said it allowed the party to dramatically improve its ground campaign across South Australia, especially in marginal seats that were critical to victory. Another said it was an "amazing, amazing piece of equipment" but was only as good as the data fed into it. The source said the Liberal Party was currently using a fraction of the service's potential. i360's use in SA, where the party is leaving the ageing in-house "Feedback" software behind, is only the beginning. The Victorian Liberals are preparing to use the American service in the upcoming state election. There is potential for wider adoption eventually. "It’s got this infinite potential but we’re only now scaling up how we can use it," one Liberal said.  Leading privacy specialist Anna Johnston, director of Salinger Privacy and a former NSW deputy privacy commissioner, is concerned by the lack of accountability and transparency surrounding the political use of personal data. Politicians at all levels and registered parties are exempt from the Privacy Act, which governs data collection, use and disclosure by almost all businesses. "The upshot is that political parties can collect that information without us having the foggiest," Johnston says.  "Until the exemption is abolished – and I think it should be – we as citizens have no right to ask the parties what data they hold about us. There’s no obligation to keep that data secure, to use it only for appropriate purposes, to notify us when they’re collecting it." Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix at the company's New York office. Photo: Washington Post Attorney-General Christian Porter says the exemption is "designed to encourage freedom of political communication and support the operation of the electoral and political process". "The exemption does not authorise entities who are subject to the Privacy Act to disclose personal information that will be used by politicians or registered political parties for political purposes," Porter said. That's an important distinction from the situation in the United States, where scant privacy laws have allowed a vast industry to thrive around data mining and broking for use in politics, business and more. Cambridge Analytica is the highest-profile purveyor. Chief executive Alexander Nix, in an interview with Fairfax Media , has described the privacy regime in the US as "permissive". Much of the data they are sweeping up has become a byproduct of daily consumer and lifestyle behaviour, with people regularly volunteering personal information that ends up being collected by data brokers and marketers. Nix's organisation is a spin-off brand of a British data science company called SCL Group that has done political, commercial and defence work across the world. The offshoot was established with investment from conservative American hedge-fund billionaire Robert Mercer and boasted nationalist former White House adviser Stephen Bannon on its board. Rising to prominence after backing a series of Republican candidates, most notably Trump, the firm says it has amassed up to 5000 data points on every individual American. According to the company, their point of difference is to fuse this information with "psychographic" personality insights obtained in hundreds of thousands of surveys, creating a model that profiles individual voters. US political strategists and observers are divided over how much Cambridge Analytica really contributed to the success of the Trump campaign. The company has certainly made an effort to craft a mysterious and polished image. But the firm's move to Australia has been greeted with scepticism. There was at least one meeting with the Liberal side of politics. One party source said their strategists did their research on Cambridge Analytica and concluded its power was over-hyped. There was also awareness of its Trump-laden reputation. A Labor source was more frank: "They are involved in some dark and dangerous shit, we are going nowhere near them." Fairfax Media understands that in October last year, Labor's national secretary Noah Carroll told a meeting of opposition staff that the firm was establishing itself in Australia but said the party would not be getting involved because of Cambridge Analytica's values, connections and record. Fairfax Media has also been told Labor is largely satisfied with its ability to mount digital campaigns and doesn't see a need for the services on offer. The latest claims against Cambridge Analytica concern their inappropriate acquisition of data from researcher Alexandr Kogan, who had collected it from 270,000 Facebook users who downloaded his survey app. The data included details from their personal profiles and from their friends, ultimately capturing the information of up to 50 million people. Australia's information and privacy commissioner, Timothy Pilgrim, said his office was making inquiries with Facebook as to whether the data of Australians was captured. "I will consider Facebook’s response and whether any further regulatory action is required," Pilgrim said in a statement. He pointed to the commissioner's powers to investigate and penalise alleged breaches of the Privacy Act. One Liberal operative said the Cambridge Analytica controversy had vindicated the wariness in some corners about adopting these cutting-edge, third party services. "The only way you can guarantee the integrity of data is by controlling the platform," the person said. "You can protect the data and know you’re complying with all laws." 

[w622]  Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended after boasts of 'putting Trump in White House' Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended after boasts of 'putting Trump in White House' Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement World Europe Donald Trump Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended after boasts of 'putting Trump in White House' By Nick Miller Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size Replay London:   Secretive British data company Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO Alexander Nix after he boasted to undercover journalists about using honey traps, misinformation campaigns and bribery stings to influence election campaigns. The announcement came as the UK's Channel 4 News revealed executives claiming they were the power behind Donald Trump’s election campaign. Channel 4 had recorded Nix and others from CA promoting their services to an undercover reporter. Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica (CA) Alexander Nix, leaves the offices in central London after being suspended. Photo: AP Nix claimed CA “did all the research, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy” for Trump. They said their mastery of data analytics allowed the Trump campaign to target the voters who would win him the White House – pointing out that he lost the popular vote by 3 million people but won by influencing “40,000 votes in three states”. Advertisement Cambridge Analytica executives as portrayed in the Channel 4 expose. They claimed the political candidate was just a “puppet” in this kind of campaign. They boasted of developing the “Defeat Crooked Hillary” slogan into hundreds of internet memes which they seeded and boosted on social media. Mark Turnbull, managing director of CA’s political division, said they used “charities or activist groups” to “put information into the bloodstream of the internet and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again over time to watch it take shape. And so this stuff infiltrates the online community and expands but with no branding so it’s unattributable, untrackable”. And they revealed that they used a secret email service called ProtonMail – developed and based in Switzerland – to send messages that self-destructed after being read, to prevent leaving an auditable trail of their actions. On Tuesday the CA board said Nix was suspended with immediate effect pending a full, independent investigation. “In the view of the Board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” they said in a statement. They were referring to the previous night’s Channel 4 report, in which undercover footage showed executives from CA talking about dirty tricks they might use to support political campaigns. These included working with former spies to dig up political dirt, offering incumbents “a deal that’s too good to be true and make sure that’s video recorded”, or sending “some girls around to the candidates’ house… some Ukrainians on holiday with us, you know what I’m saying”. The UK’s Information Commissioner is seeking a warrant to search CA’s London office to investigate claims that CA used Facebook data gathered without the social media giant’s permission, or its users’ knowledge of the purpose it was being gathered for. 

[w623] Cambridge Analytica began testing out pro-Trump slogans the same year Russia launched its influence operation targeting the 2016 election 


[w624] Facebook tracks a scary number of details about you -- here's how to find out everything it knows 


[w625] 

[w626] Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak 

[w627] 

[w628] 

[w629]  $US60b wiped off value of Facebook shares    $US60b wiped off value of Facebook shares  The data breach by Cambridge Analytica continues to affect Facebook, with more than $US60 billion being wiped off the social giant's market capitalisation.    Shares of Facebook have continued their downward slide as investors feared regulatory repercussions after revelations about the company's mishandling of data on 50 million users. Facebook's stock was down 5.3 per cent as of 1.10pm local time in New York trading on Tuesday, after a 6.8 per cent drop on Monday. As of midday on Tuesday, the decline had wiped out around $US63 billion ($A82 billion) of the company's market value since last Friday's closing price, with its market cap at around $US475 billion. Facebook's woes also dragged down Twitter, whose share price tumbled more than 10 per cent on Tuesday amid concerns it, too, could be subjected to new government regulations. Shares of Snap, parent company of Snapchat, were down 2.8 per cent. The Wall Street sell-off comes after reports that Facebook user data was improperly obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm used by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Last Friday, Facebook announced that it kicked Cambridge Analytica and its parent company off the platform, claiming the researcher who provided the data to them violated Facebook's policies. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have denied that the user data was used as part of the firm's work for the Trump campaign. Among new developments, the Federal Trade Commission has launched an investigation into whether Facebook violated the terms of its 2011 consent decree with the agency, Bloomberg reported. Under that agreement, Facebook committed to explicitly obtaining user consent for certain changes to privacy settings after the FTC alleged Facebook misled consumers and into sharing more personal information than they intended. Facebook confirmed that it expected to receive an inquiry letter from the FTC this week. "We remain strongly committed to protecting people's information," Facebook deputy chief privacy officer Rob Sherman said in a statement. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have." Facebook was said to be holding all-hands-on-deck meetings with employees about the situation on Tuesday. In addition, the UK's House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee on Tuesday requested that CEO Mark Zuckerberg appear before its Fake News inquiry to explain the Cambridge Analytica situation. That came after US lawmakers issued calls for similar hearings. Some Wall Street analysts believe Facebook won't suffer any long-term setbacks from the latest controversy. "We see notable issues, but believe FB will work through them," CFRA Research's Scott Kessler wrote in a note Monday, reiterating the firm's "buy" rating on the stock. So far, top Facebook execs including Zuckerberg have stayed silent on the controversy. 

[w630]     Papua New Guinea banning Facebook for a month to conduct research Tech groups raise concerns EU ePrivacy plan could kill innovation   As the Facebook and Cambridge Analytica saga unfolds, how did social media become such a threat to democracy? John Kennedy investigates. “Asleep or awake, working or eating, indoors or out of doors, in the bath or in bed — no escape, Big Brother is watching you,” George Orwell wrote prophetically in his book Nineteen Eighty-Four . From his vantage point of 1949, as he watched the world plunge into a Cold War, Orwell might have gotten the year wrong, but he was right on the money about what was coming. And now, we have gone from the Cold War to the Social Media War. This is war we never could imagine, and one in which we are all just cannon fodder, whether we like to admit it or not. We offer up insights and clues daily, and, sadly – as the US elections of 2016 proved – some of us are pretty much being told what to think, or manipulated into what we should think, not so much by an imaginary Big Brother, but potentially a vast family of Big Brothers with diverse methods, politics and intentions. The explosive  Observer investigation at the weekend into Cambridge Analytica and how it is alleged to have improperly gained access to data on 50m Facebook users shocked the world. It took a seedier turn when Channel 4 video footage also emerged last night (19 March) indicating how Cold War-era tactics such as entrapping politicians with sex and bribes could also be used to manipulate elections to suit a corporate objective. For some time now, Facebook has been firefighting insinuations of how fake news and manipulation of ads on its network by Russian cyber gangs contributed to the election of Donald Trump as president of the US. The implication is that not only are nation states trying to manipulate social media, but third parties can do it, too – for the highest bidder. And, as allegations continue to surface around how Cambridge Analytica was able to get data on 50m Facebook users in the first place using a third-party app, the social network has seen its share value plunge 7pc, wiping nearly $40bn off its market value as investors, worried about how new regulations could damage Facebook’s advertising business, take flight. I don’t think Mark Zuckerberg ever intended for Facebook to have been abused the way it has been alleged to by nation states or businesses. I genuinely believe he wants to make the world a better place. But, in many ways, the onset of social media, with billions of people offering up their own data to the social shrine, has sadly and predictably become a godsend for those who work in the shadows. In war, any war, information is power It does not help Facebook that, just as it grapples with how it has been used to spread disinformation for political purposes, the social network’s chief information security officer (CISO), Alex Stamos, is leaving the company. I met Stamos in 2016 at the Web Summit in Lisbon – ironically, the same week that Trump was elected – and found him to be a conscientious and talented asset for Facebook. However, it turns out that Stamos is leaving over a disagreement over how much Facebook should publicly share about how nation states misused the platform, and debate over organisational changes in the run-up to the 2018 midterm elections in the US. Apparently, Stamos advocated more disclosure about Russian interference and meddling with the network, but was met with resistance. It did not help – and it is extremely ironic, considering the scrutiny that Facebook is under from an infosec perspective – that Stamos’s CISO office had been reduced in size from 120 down to just three people. For its part, Facebook said yesterday that it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data. “Auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytica’s London office this evening,” the company said in a statement. “At the request of the UK Information Commissioner’s Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down.” For its part, Cambridge Analytica has denied media claims , and said that it deleted all Facebook data that it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning of the conflict with data protection regulation. The company has also rejected allegations emerging from secretly taped interviews with senior executives that portrayed them boasting of their ability to sway elections in countries around the world such as Sri Lanka by using data and political manipulation. Regulation is coming Facebook’s battle is really about taking its head out of the sand, facing up to the reality that people are trying to manipulate the platform in turn to manipulate users, and effectively proving to the masses that it really has the ordinary user’s interests – their privacy and safety – at heart. Whether Facebook or Wall Street or the wider Silicon Valley like it or not, greater regulation is coming. In Europe – thanks to the work of campaigning lawyer Max Schrems – we have gotten accustomed to debates around what internet giants are doing with our data and resulting regulatory intensity. With the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) becoming law in May across the EU, tech companies are now going to be under greater-than-ever regulatory security both sides of the Atlantic. Various attorneys general of US states are about to launch inquiries into Facebook’s data policies. Not only that, but the US Senate is expected to progress a bill that would chip away at the internet industry’s legal shield, a law known as Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, with new legislation to tackle online sex traffic. The lid on a virtual Pandora’s box has been lifted and it could be the biggest existential battle Facebook has faced in its short 14-year history. It’s not a dystopian fantasy, it is today’s reality Whether most users realise it or not; whether you use social networks such as Facebook or Twitter, or just consider yourself a private citizen with no interest in social media, you are on the frontline of a dangerous new epoch in human history. If you have a computer or carry a mobile device, you are a node on a new battlefield. The weapons aren’t bullets – they are your thoughts, persuasions or backdoors into your prejudices or your bank accounts. And, willingly, we all subscribe to the echo chambers we choose to understand or affiliate with. Most devices – despite using the latest antivirus systems – may have already been compromised because most internet security players are behind on security threat detection. It is a game of cat-and-mouse between tech firms and hackers; some working for themselves, some in the pocket of corporations or nation states. And ordinary users are mere cannon fodder. Most up-to-date devices already have malware inside waiting for a digital foot soldier belonging to Russia, China, Israel or the US to just hit the button. As it emerged on Friday (16 March), the US has officially warned that Russian hackers have already been shown to have gained access to energy grids, nuclear power facilities and water facilities in the US. That alert was based on a report by Symantec last October. If that isn’t worrying enough, the fact that shadowy interests can manipulate the masses to suit their intentions is terrifying. That alone is the single greatest threat to world democracy in the 73 or so years since the end of World War II. And it is only now that we are getting our heads around the vulnerabilities of our privacy. As this unfolds, ask yourself: what is the right side? And who is the enemy? 

[w631]  'Appearances can be deceptive' - CEO falls on sword, but did Cambridge Analytica swing the US election for Trump?   


[w632] Data Bill would ‘create free-for-all’ for harvesting data on political views 

[w633]   MPs air concerns over Cambridge Analytica disclosures  Politicians from across the House of Commons have been airing their concerns over the use of Facebook data by the company Cambridge Analytica, which has boasted about using personal information to target voters during elections. Downing Street released a statement calling the breach “very concerning” on Monday, but further disclosures in a Channel 4 News investigation have shown that the company discussed propaganda, disinformation and extortion tactics with prospective clients. Liam Byrne, Labour’s shadow minister for digital, called the combination of big data companies and foreign powers an “unholy alliance” which demanded legislation to stop any “interfering in our democracy”. Why the law must change to stop an unholy alliance of bad companies and bad countries interfering in our democracy #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered https://t.co/Q6Vy8RTmUB — Liam (@LiamByrneMP) March 20, 2018 Lord Ashdown suggested making personal data the same as personal property in the eyes of the law, including the right to take a share of any profits. Cambridge Analytica & data harvesting: the only protection is to set in law that personal data is part of individual property to which they have full property rights and that this cannot be used without their formal agreement, including the right to share in the profits created. — Paddy Ashdown (@paddyashdown) March 20, 2018 “Cambridge Analytica & data harvesting: the only protection is to set in law that personal data is part of individual property to which they have full property rights and that this cannot be used without their formal agreement, including the right to share in the profits created,” he wrote. And Darren Jones, a Labour MP on the science and technology select committee, a shared concerns that the forthcoming data protection bill could give a “get-out clause” to companies like Cambridge Analytica. I've written to @margot_james_mp re concerns that Gov #DataProtectionBill amendments could've given #CambridgeAnalytica a get out clause. pic.twitter.com/7V2rzBjqKr — Darren Jones MP (@darrenpjones) March 20, 2018 Liberal Democrat leader Vince Cable took the opportunity to question Cambridge Analytica’s possible role in the Brexit vote. While the leaders of Leave.EU had previously boasted of using Cambridge Analytica’s services, they have since said a contract was never signed. “Now we need to find out if #CambridgeAnalytics [sic] and leak from #Facebook played a key role in #Brexit #Referendum,” wrote Mr Cable on Twitter. Now we need to find out if #CambridgeAnalytics and leak from #Facebook played a key role in #Brexit #Referendum . https://t.co/kmAmC0KV6q — Vince Cable (@vincecable) March 19, 2018 And as the hashtag #DeleteFacebook started to circulate online, the SNP’s Stewart McDonald admitted he deleted his page a year ago and predicted others would do the same. “Though I maintain an MP Facebook page for constituents, I’m now glad I deleted my personal Facebook page over a year ago,” he wrote. “Too full of advertising and obscure profiles requesting to be ‘friends’. Quite sure many will be doing the same after #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered.” Many MPs praised journalists at Channel 4 News and the Observer for their work in exposing how Cambridge Analytica had both harvested and stored personal data from Facebook users. “If you care at all about democracy & believe elections should be open & not corrupted please watch this; the story Cambridge Analytica didn’t want you to see,” wrote Labour’s Yvette Cooper, commending journalists for their investigative work.  

[w634]  Facebook 'outraged' over misuse of data               Facebook 'outraged' after being 'deceived' over misuse of data     Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg is accused of misleading a UK parliamentary inquiry Facebook has said the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica.  A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher.  "The entire company is outraged, we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said.  It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams "are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue."  Tonight's statement came after the British parliamentary inquiry into fake news called on Mr Zuckerberg to give evidence, accusing the company of "misleading" the committee in a previous hearing. The chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee, Damian Collins, tweeted a picture of his letter to Mr Zuckerberg, in which he said the tech giant's officials had "consistently understated" the risk of companies acquiring and holding users' private data. I have today written to @facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg calling on him to give oral evidence to @CommonsCMS following recent reports in @guardian and @nytimes pic.twitter.com/y5xnGHzaNI — Damian Collins (@DamianCollins) March 20, 2018 Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain will consider any suggestions to give the body in charge of upholding data privacy laws more powers. "If proposals are put forward for further powers, we can consider them as the bill passes through parliament," her spokesman told reporters, referring to data protection legislation already passing through parliament. Mr Zuckerberg has also been invited to speak about data protection at the European Parliament. Britain is investigating whether Facebook did enough to protect data after a whistleblower said the London-based political consultancy hired by Donald Trump improperly accessed information on 50 million Facebook users to sway public opinion. The board of Cambridge Analytica, which is at the centre of the trans-Atlantic probe,  has suspended chief executive Alexander Nix with immediate effect. Read More: What is Cambridge Analytica?   US and European politicians have demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm gained access to the data. An investigation by Facebook at CA's London office was halted in order to allow the UK Information Commissioner's Office to pursue its inquiry. Further claims about CA included allegations the company offered to entrap politicians and used ex-spies to dig for dirt on potential targets. But the firm's boss, Alexander Nix, claimed CA was the target of media attacks because of its role in Mr Trump's successful election campaign. 

[w635]   How to protect your Facebook privacy – or delete yourself completely 

[w636] 

[w637] 

[w638] 

[w639]   What’s going on with Facebook and Cambridge Analytica? 

[w640] CEO of Cambridge Analytica suspended with immediate effect        CEO of Cambridge Analytica suspended with immediate effect    Cambridge Analytica released a statement on Tuesday evening. Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, has been suspended by the company with immediate effect. The board of the company confirmed the decision to suspend Nix on Tuesday in the wake of revelations about the conduct of Nix and some of his Cambridge Analytica colleagues released by Channel 4 News on Monday. The Board has suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation. https://t.co/HV9Mb5eXIR — Cambridge Analytica (@CamAnalytica) March 20, 2018 In footage aired on Channel 4, high-profile figures from Cambridge Analytica were filmed discussing the use of bribes, ex-spies, fake IDs and sex workers to influence elections. Nix himself was filmed detailing examples of his company's ability to discredit political rivals via smear campaigns, including arranging encounters with sex workers and staging scenarios in which bribery could be caught on camera. Advertisement Nix was also heard to say that he had met Donald Trump “many times”, while claims were made that the company played a highly influential role in the 2016 US Presidential election, in which Trump defeated Hillary Clinton.  A self-driving Uber car has hit and killed a pedestrian in America READ MORE A statement from Cambridge Analytica on Tuesday read: “The Board of Cambridge Analytica has announced today that it has suspended CEO Alexander Nix with immediate effect, pending a full, independent investigation. “In the view of the Board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation. “We have asked Dr. Alexander Tayler to serve as acting CEO while an independent investigation is launched to review those comments and allegations. “We have asked Julian Malins QC to lead this investigation, the findings of which the Board will share publicly in due course. “The Board will be monitoring the situation closely, working closely with Dr. Tayler, to ensure that Cambridge Analytica, in all of its operations, represents the firm’s values and delivers the highest-quality service to its clients.” 

[w641]  Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Alexander Nix News  The firm says he's suspended immediately pending a full independent investigation Facebook row tech firm Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO Alexander Nix in the wake of a series of allegations. Facebook is currently facing investigations by authorities in the EU, UK and the US over a reported data breach that impacted more than 50 million people. Data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica was hired by Donald Trump's campaign team. It's is accused of using millions of Facebook profiles without authorisation to predict and influence the US election. The company's board says it has suspended Mr Nix pending a full independent investigation of his actions. The suspension is effective immediately, according to the company's website. Cambridge Analytica statement | Image: ca-commercial.com Comments Mr Nix made to an undercover reporter for Britain's Channel 4 News and other allegations of wrongdoing were cited as reasons for the action by the board. In secretly recorded conversations, Mr Nix claimed he had met Trump "many times", according to The Guardian. "We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy," Mr Nix told undercover reporters. The paper also reports that senior managers appeared to suggest that in their work for American clients there was planned division of work between official campaigns and unaffiliated "political action groups". If true, this could be considered coordination, which is not allowed under US election law. Mr Nix also was filmed boasting about using "Ukrainian girls" who are "very beautiful" to entrap the political opponents of clients. Meanwhile, Facebook's founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg has been invited by the European Parliament to answer questions regarding the growing scandal about user data. We’ve invited Mark Zuckerberg to the European Parliament. Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy. 

[w642]   Concerned by Cambridge Analytica revelations? Here's a simple guide to keeping your Facebook data more private Tuesday, March 20, 2018 - 06:09 PM As British firm Cambridge Analytica is accused of misusing data gleaned from Facebook users, people are questioning how they will continue to use the social media site. Here’s how to find out just what sort of information you share via apps on Facebook and ultimately how to delete your account. What sort of data does Facebook have on its users and what does it share? Every interaction on Facebook generates data. Users volunteer some information in their profile like their hometown and birthday. Other data could be about interests gleaned from publicly liking content – be that dogs and walking or sci-fi films and beauty bloggers. Facebook also knows where you log on to its site from, the device you use, and which ads you click on. Apps which work on the site, like mini games and personality quizzes, request a user’s permission to take this information – a person’s data. There are rules about what third parties can do with it. Facebook says data collected via a quiz app called ThisIsYourDigitalLife, billed as a personality predictor, was passed to Cambridge Analytica in violation of its terms. Where can I find details about what apps I’ve given access to? Visit www.facebook.com/settings or, on the desktop site, settings is located on the drop-down menu on the right-hand side of the blue header bar. Click on the apps tab on the left-hand side of the screen to see all the apps you’ve okayed. (PA) Users can see what info is shared with any app, and there are options to delete, limit the information each app can access and remove info collected by the app. Deleting an app may still allow the developer to retain some of a user’s personal information. How do my friends impact on apps? (ViewApart/Getty Images) In “Apps Others Use”, Facebook sets out how apps which other people use can read your data. This feature revolves around the social part of Facebook – it’s the tech which means you might be flagged as a fellow reader of a certain book, a brand devotee, or someone who also plays a game. (PA) Click edit and 13 categories are listed, including bio, timeline posts and online status. Any combination can be toggled on and off. What is Facebook Platform? (PA) If you want to go a step further you can turn off Platform – this is the system which among other things allows you to comment on or log into other websites using your Facebook details. By turning it off, you lose some functionality but it means your information is not automatically shared as you surf the web. How to see your Facebook data (PA) In the general section of the settings is an option “download a copy of your Facebook data”. Click on it and Facebook will email you when it’s ready to download. Facebook says most of this data is already available in your account and activity log, but it also includes information on ads you have clicked on and the IP addresses you’ve used. It will also reveal email addresses previously associated with your account, topics of ads which may be targeted to you and the metadata contained in photos uploaded to Facebook. How do I deactivate or delete my account? (PA) Facebook talks people through both deactivating and deleting their account in Settings > General > Manage Your Account. Deactivating allows you to log back in in the future and have your Facebook profile completely restored. While deactive, people won’t be able to search for you or see your page, but the info is retained. To permanently delete your Facebook account, visit www.facebook.com/help/delete_account to start the process. It may take up to 90 days to delete all the things you’ve posted, says Facebook.  KEYWORDS Sci-Tech UK Politics Cambridge Delete UK Cambridge Analytica News Daily Headlines Receive our lunchtime briefing straight to your inbox Related Articles Facebook will not pay compensation for Cambridge Analytica case UK's Information Commissioner finds in favour of professor over Cambridge Analytica personal data fight Bosses of collapsed Cambridge Analytica could still face action – ICO Latest: Mark Zuckerberg threatened with formal summons in fake news inquiry in the UK 


[w643]  All you need to know about Cambridge Analytica and Facebook What's going on with your Facebook data and how did we get here?  British research firm Cambridge Analytica has hit the headlines this week after an undercover investigation by Channel 4 News , alongside evidence given to the press by a whistleblower who had ties with the organisation, uncovered some rather unsavoury working practices. There’s a lot to digest, especially if you’re not familiar with social networks and how digital data is used for advertising and campaigning. If that’s the case, we’ve put together this quick-fire guide that should get you up to speed on the issue that could have profound implications for how we protect our digital data going forward. What is Cambridge Analytica? 38286773901_5bc03e55f1_z Cambridge Analytica CEO Nix. Image: Web Summit How does Facebook come into this? DID YOU KNOW… There are currently around 1,450 Big Issue sellers working hard on the streets each week. What happens next? 7985186041_b08232360d_z Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg. 


[w644] WATCH: Channel 4's Cambridge Analytica documentary is an eye-opening look at the business of election influencing  Channel 4's Cambridge Analytica documentary is an eye-opening look at the business of election influencing    "An online information war where unseen hands harvest your personal data, tapping into your hopes and fears for the greatest political yield." An undercover investigation by Channel 4 News has accused British data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica of secretly campaigning in elections across the world. In a documentary aired on Channel 4 on Monday night, high-profile figures from Cambridge Analytica were filmed discussing the use of bribes, ex-spies, fake IDs and sex workers to influence elections. An undercover reporter posed as a Sri Lankan businessman with the story that he wished to influence a local election. Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix was apparently filmed detailing examples of his company's ability to discredit political rivals via smear campaigns, including arranging encounters with sex workers and staging scenarios in which bribery could be caught on camera. In one exchange, Managing Director of CA Political Global Mark Turnbull outlines how data can be used to influence the public: "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control," he said. "It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘that’s propaganda’, because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda’, the next question is, ‘Who’s put that out?’" You can watch the documentary in full below. Advertisement  Mary Lou McDonald's criticism of the Iona Institute is being widely shared and praised READ MORE Clip via Channel 4 News The Channel 4 doc arrives just days after an Observer exposé revealed that 50 million Facebook profiles were harvested for Cambridge Analytica. For their part, Cambridge Analytica has hit back at Channel 4 since the airing of the documentary. In a statement issued to CNN on Monday night, the company said that the production was "edited and scripted to grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how the company conducts its business." Elsewhere, an official  press release  strongly rejects the allegations made by the documentary. “In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios," said Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix. "I am aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honeytraps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose. “I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner.” 

[w645] 

[w646] Malaysia says never hired British data firm at center of scrutiny  The Malaysian government and the ruling party on Tuesday denied they had ever hired Cambridge Analytica, the British data analytics firm accused of improperly harvesting personal data from millions of Facebook users. The New York Times and the British Observer reported that Cambridge Analytica had acquired private data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to support Donald Trump's 2016 presidential election campaign. In a secretly recorded video by Britain's Channel 4 News, Cambridge Analytica officials were also recorded saying they have used a web of shell companies to disguise their activities in elections in Malaysia, Mexico and Brazil, among various countries where they have worked to sway election outcomes. "Contrary to media reports, neither Cambridge Analytica nor its parent company SCL Group have ever – now or in the past – been contracted, employed or paid in any way by Barisan Nasional, the Prime Minister's Office or any part of the Government of Malaysia," the office of Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak said on Tuesday. Barisan Nasional (BN) is Malaysia's ruling coalition. SCL and Cambridge Analytica did not respond to requests by Reuters for comment regarding their work in Malaysia. Cambridge Analytica had earlier denied all the media claims and said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data-protection rules. Malaysia is gearing up for national elections that have to be called by August, with sources telling Reuters that polls may be held as early as April. Najib's coalition is widely expected to retain power. Najib's office also said SCL has informed the government that "Cambridge Analytica's advice on the 2013 general election was provided personally to Mukhriz Mahathir," who was then with the ruling coalition but is now part of the opposition. "The SCL representative also confirmed that he reported directly to Mukhriz Mahathir, not BN or the government," Najib's office said. Mukhriz told Reuters that the statement by PMO was misleading. "I categorically deny any contact with Cambridge Analytica at any time," he said. Earlier in the day, he denied receiving any analysis, data or advice from the firm. Mukhriz is the son of the former Malaysian premier Mahathir Mohamad, who is now the opposition's prime ministerial candidate. According to Cambridge Analytica's website, the firm "supported Barisan Nasional in Kedah state with a targeted messaging campaign highlighting their school improvements since 2008." It also notes how BN wrested power back from the opposition in the 2013 elections. Mukhriz was appointed chief minister of Kedah after the 2013 win, but he was sacked by the ruling party in 2016 after being critical of Najib in a corruption scandal. 

[w648]


[w740]  	 Stock mostly higher but Facebook sinks again 


[w743]  BRIEFS - Shares in Facebook fell by 6.7% last night, wiping $37 billion off the company's value, as an investigation by Channel 4 News and The Guardian sparked concerns about the data it holds on users. The investigation centres around data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, which is alleged to have used of the personal information of millions of Facebook users as part of its election campaigns. Facebook has suspended the firm due to what says was a breach of its terms and conditions, however it is now facing questions about the data it holds on its users. 

[w745]  Privacy issues emerge as big business risk for Facebook              Privacy issues emerge as major business risk for Facebook     Shares in Facebook fell last night by almost 7%, their biggest drop since 2014 Facebook faces substantial business risks from new European Union privacy rules set to take effect in May.  This looming reality came into stark focus over the weekend with revelations that a controversial political consulting firm had improperly obtained personal data on 50 million Facebook users .  Privacy experts said the disclosure that a researcher had sold Facebook data collected via a personality quiz to the consulting firm Cambridge Analytica is a prime example of the kinds of practices that the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is supposed to prevent or punish.  The danger faced by Facebook going forward is two-fold - complying with the rules means letting European users opt out of the highly targeted online ads that have made Facebook a money machine.  But violating GDPR mandates could subject the California company to fines of up to 4% of annual revenues.  Had the Cambridge Analytica incident happened after GDPR becomes law on May 25, it "would have cost Facebook 4% of their global revenue", Austrian privacy campaigner and Facebook critic Max Schrems said. Because a UK company was involved and because at least some of the people whose data was misused were almost certainly European, GDPR would have applied.  Shares in Facebook fell last night by almost 7%, their biggest drop since 2014, wiping nearly $40 billion off the value of the firm founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg. The shares fell further in trade today. Schrems first raised concerns in 2011 about how easy it would be for third-party apps to harvest data from the unwitting friends of Facebook users.  Facebook said it has tightened its controls on such practices since it discovered the alleged abuses by Cambridge Analytica in 2015.  According to whistleblower Christopher Wylie, who formerly worked with Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm used the data to help then-US presidential candidate Donald Trump to predict and influence choices at the ballot box.  "The fact of the matter is that Facebook lost control of the data and wasn't adequately monitoring what third-parties were doing," said Scott Vernick, a partner and an expert in privacy and data security at the Philadelphia law firm Fox Rothschild.  Vernick said the maximum GDPR fine could come into play in an incident like this because of the number of users affected and what appears to have been inadequate monitoring of third-party data practices.  Facebook said it changed its policies in 2014 to "to give much less data, especially about friends," Facebook Vice President Andrew Bosworth said in a Facebook post yesterday.  "We conduct a robust review to identify potential policyviolations and to assess whether the app has a legitimate usefor the data," the company said.  "We actually reject a significant number of apps through this process," it added.  Compliance with GDPR rules could cost Facebook a significant amount of money.  Deutsche Bank analysts in January estimated that Facebook's overall revenue could be lowered by 4% in a scenario in which 30% of EU users opt out of targeted ads, reducing the effectiveness and likely price of ads shown by 50%.  The EU represents 24% of Facebook's ad revenue, so multiplying those figures, the bank said the regulations could have a 4% impact on overall Facebook revenue.  "If this regulatory approach spreads to other countries or if GDPR ever becomes more onerous over the medium or long term, it would pose more risk," Deutsche Bank warned.  The firestorm over Cambridge Analytica has prompted a furious response from lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic, raising the prospect of just such an expansion of privacy protections. A December 2017 survey found that only 21% of European consumers know what GDPR is.  But after the regulation was explained, 82% of respondents said they plan to exercise their new rights, according to the survey of 7,000 Europeans conducted by US-based Pegasystems, which makes sales and marketing software.  PageFair, an Irish startup that helps websites deliver non-targeted ads and avoid ad-blocking, estimates that only 3% of European social media users will opt-in to targeted ads. This is a potentially "devastating" blow for Facebook and other platforms, said Johnny Ryan, PageFair's head of ecosystem.  GDPR gives users the right to access their data, delete it or transfer it to competing companies.  Social networks will also need to regain Europeans' consent every time they want to use their data in new ways, including for targeted advertising.  Politicians had social networks in mind when drafting GDPR, said Helen Dixon, Ireland's Data Protection Commissioner, which is the lead GDPR regulator for numerous tech companies including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.  "There was very big consideration of these newer types ofplatforms," she told Reuters.  Tough European rules stand in sharp contrast to the lack of privacy regulation in the US and many other countries, raising the prospect that Facebook will begin to look much different from one country to the next. For example, the social media giant in 2017 released new artificial intelligence features that detect when a user is at risk of suicide or when someone else uploads a picture of their face.  The company did not make those features available in Europe. Facebook did not specify a reason.  But heightened scrutiny in Europe over such practices with GDPR looming may have been a factor.  Another challenge for social networks are GDPR provisions mandating how companies must obtain permissions.  The regulation demands that requests for consent be presented "in an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language."  In other words, the days of extensive "terms of service" agreements written in small text will no longer pass muster in Europe, numerous data privacy lawyers told Reuters.  In practice, social network users may find themselves seeing more "permissions screens" and being asked to check boxes everytime a social network rolls out a new feature.  That could depress usage, Facebook's chief financial officer David Wehner said at an investor conference last month.  "Whenever you walk people through permission screens, there's some potential that people decide they're not going to use the product," Wehner said. "We don't think it will be big, but there could be some implication there."


[w749]  	 What is Cambridge Analytica? The company linked to Trump and Brexit explained   


[w756] Facebook investigating whether Canadians caught up in data harvesting scheme   


[w757]    Thinking of breaking up with Facebook? It's harder than it looks  				 Facebook’s latest privacy scandal, involving Trump campaign consultants who allegedly stole data on tens of millions of users in order to influence elections, has some people reconsidering their relationship status with the social network. There’s just one problem: There isn’t much of anywhere else to go. Facebook has weathered many such blow-ups before and is used to apologizing and moving on. But the stakes are bigger this time. Regulatory authorities are starting to focus on the data misappropriation, triggering a 9 per cent decline in Facebook’s normally high-flying stock since Monday. Some of that reflects fear that changes in Facebook’s business will hurt profits or that advertisers and users will sour on the social network. The furor over Cambridge Analytica, the data mining firm accused of stealing Facebook data, follows a bad year in which Facebook acknowledged helping spread fake news and propaganda from Russian agents. It also comes less than three months after CEO Mark Zuckerberg told the world that he would devote the year to fixing Facebook. Instead, things seem to be getting worse. “It’s more serious economically, politically, financially and will require a more robust response in order to regain users’ trust,” said Steve Jones, a professor of communications at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Yet leaving Facebook, like ending a long marriage, isn’t remotely simple. Starting with the little things. Arvind Rajan, a tech executive from San Francisco who deactivated his account on Monday, suddenly discovered he needs to create new usernames and passwords for a variety of apps and websites. That’s because he previously logged in with his Facebook ID. It’s a pain, he said, “but not the end of the world.” And because he is bothered by Facebook’s “ham-handed” response to recent problems, the inconvenience is worth it. For other users looking to leave, it can feel as if there are no real alternatives. Twitter? Too flighty, too public. Instagram? Whoops, owned by Facebook. Snapchat? Please, unless you’re under 25 — in which case you’re probably not on Facebook to begin with. Facebook connects 2.2 billion users and a host of communities that have sprung up on its network. No other company can match the breadth or depth of these connections — thanks in part to Facebook’s proclivity for squashing or swallowing up its competition. Cambridge Analytica controversy: How Facebook likes could profile voters for manipulation Canadian at centre of Facebook data scandal cut political teeth with Liberals But it is precisely in Facebook’s interest to make users feel Facebook is the only place to connect with others. Where else will grandmothers see photos of their far-flung grandkids? How will new mothers connect to other parents also up at 4 a.m. with a newborn? “My only hesitation is that there are hundreds of pictures posted over 13 years of my life that I do not want to lose access to. If there was a way to recover these photos, I would deactivate immediately,” Daniel Schwartz, who lives in Atlanta, said in an email. People eager to delete their profiles may find unexpected problems that point to how integral Facebook is to many activities, said Ifeoma Ajunwa, a professor of organizational behaviour at Cornell University. “It is getting more and more difficult for people to delete Facebook, since it’s not just as a social media platform but also almost like a meeting square,” she said. Parents could soon realize that their child’s soccer schedule with games and pickup times is only on a Facebook page, for example. Many businesses also schedule meetings via Facebook. “It’s more and more difficult for people to feel plugged in if you’re not on Facebook,” Ajunwa said. Not surprisingly, Facebook doesn’t make it easy to leave. To permanently delete your account, you need to make a request to the company. The process can take several days, and if you log in during this time, your request will be cancelled. It can take up to 90 days to delete everything. There’s a less permanent way to leave, deactivation, which hides your profile from everyone but lets you return if you change your mind. Lili Orozco, a 28-year-old office manager for her family’s heating and cooling company in Watkinsville, Georgia, deleted her account in December. She was upset that every new app she downloaded would ask for her Facebook contacts. And while she liked staying in touch with people, she was irritated by the conspiracy stories her high school friends would share. “Falsehoods spread faster on Facebook than the truth does,” she said. She now gets her news from Twitter and shares pictures with friends through Instagram. 


[w758] A growing list of reasons to unfriend Facebook 

[w759] Let’s not trust Facebook to protect our privacy and our democracy 


[w760]        Spy agencies to explore Facebook data scandal as Canada hints at tougher laws                            Prime Minister Justin Trudeau addresses the audience during the Facebook launching of an artificial intelligence research lab Friday, September 15, 2017 in Montreal. The Trudeau government is facing pressure to do more to protect the online privacy of Canadians as policy-makers around the world grapple with the implications of using data collected by Facebook and other social-media companies for political purposes. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Paul Chiasson                      OTTAWA - The Trudeau government is turning to its spy agency and high-tech cybersleuths to ensure the privacy rights of Canadians are being protected as revelations swirl about Facebook data being exploited for political gain. And Scott Brison, the acting minister for democratic institutions, also said Tuesday he would be open to strengthening federal privacy laws even further to better defend those who share their information online. Federal privacy commissioner Daniel Therrien, meanwhile, formally launched an investigation to determine whether any personal information of Canadians was affected by the alleged unauthorized access to Facebook user profiles. Brison was responding to revelations by Canadian data expert Christopher Wylie, who is accusing data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica of improperly obtaining private data from Facebook users in order to help advance Donald Trump's campaign efforts ahead of the U.S. election. Policy-makers around the world are grappling with the implications following media reports that data collected by Facebook and other social-media companies is being harvested and used to influence elections. Recent reports by The New York Times and The Observer of London say Trump's 2016 campaign hired Cambridge Analytica, which crunched private information it inappropriately collected from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users. Wylie, who worked for the federal Liberals about a decade ago, has said in media interviews that the company used the information to profile voters and has alleged the company took fake news to the next level. The company denies any wrongdoing. Facebook's alleged data seepage has created worries in Canada, where the country's largest provinces are set to go to the polls this year and a federal election sits on the horizon for 2019. "We've reached out as a department of democratic institutions to (the Communications Security Establishment) to ask them to do an analysis of these recent events and to consider other ways that we can further strengthen the protection of our democratic institutions," Brison said. "Social media platforms have a responsibility to protect the privacy and personal data of citizens, and to protect the integrity of our electoral system where they operate." Brison said he planned to meet with CSE and also the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), the national domestic spy service, to consider the global environment and assess threats to the electoral system and the protection of personal information. And while he said Canada already has strong privacy laws, Brison said he'd be open to making further changes if necessary. The government has also contacted Facebook to find out if any Canadians were among those affected by the data breach and to call on the company to explain how it will ensure this kind of event doesn't happen again, said a spokeswoman for Brison. New Democrat MP Charlie Angus said Monday that if information giants like Facebook have the potential to distort the outcome of elections, they need to be held to account. He added that Facebook has a legal international responsibility to protect users' information from bad actors looking to use it for nefarious purposes. "Facebook seems to have a very cavalier attitude towards the protection of private information," Angus said. "What's come out of the allegations against Cambridge Analytica was the ability to subvert Facebook to use the stories, the chats that people have, to create the perfect propaganda machine." Angus said the time has come for the creation of a global framework to deal with social-media companies that hold vast stores of personal information —and he wants Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to raise the issue when Canada hosts the G7 summit in June. During question period Tuesday, Trudeau said he intends to do that and, indeed, has already had many discussions in the past with his G7 counterparts about privacy issues and democratic concerns related to social-media companies. The international uproar triggered earlier this week by Wylie had already motivated privacy watchdog Therrien to reach out to Facebook to determine whether the personal information of Canadians was affected and to offer to assist an investigation into the matter already launched by the U.K. information commissioner's office On Tuesday, Therrien said he's opened a formal investigation, which will focus on whether Canadians were affected and whether Facebook has complied with Canada's federal private sector privacy law — the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act which requires meaningful, informed consent for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In a statement, Therrien noted that political parties are not covered by privacy laws even though they collect large amounts of highly personal information about citizens, such as details on how they vote, their age, religious and cultural backgrounds. The laws are "in urgent need of reform," he said, reiterating his oft-repeated call for stronger privacy protection. Political parties in Canada have also used tools offered by Facebook to target advertisements to voters, however there's no evidence of anything similar to the allegations around Cambridge Analytica. Facebook has denied the data collection was a breach because people knowingly provided their information. The company has said a University of Cambridge psychology professor accessed the information after he requested it from users who gave their consent when they chose to sign up for his test via a Facebook app. On Monday, Facebook said it hired a digital forensics firm to conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica to determine if the Facebook data the company collected still exists or if it's been destroyed. Cambridge Analytica agreed to give the auditor complete access to its servers and systems, Facebook said. Newspaper reports have said Facebook first learned of the breach more than two years ago, but didn't disclose it until now. Cambridge Analytica has "strongly denied" the allegations that it had improperly obtained Facebook data. It has also denied that the Facebook data was used by the Trump campaign. The company has also insisted Wylie was a contractor, not a founder, as he has claimed. Wylie, a 28-year-old from British Columbia, left the firm in 2014. Trump's campaign has denied using the Cambridge Analytica's data, saying it relied on the Republican National Committee for its information.  


[w761]   Mozilla's opt-out Firefox DNS privacy test sparks, er, privacy outcry Facebook stockholders tell Zuck to reform voting rules as data scandal branded 'human rights violation'     Mozilla's plan to test a more secure method for resolving internet domain names – known as Trusted Recursive Resolver (TRR) via DNS over HTTPs (DoH) – in Firefox Nightly builds has met with objections from its user community due to privacy concerns. The browser maker's intentions appear to be beneficial for Firefox users. As Patrick McManus, one of the Mozilla software engineers conducting the test, explains in a note posted this week to one of the company's developer forums, DoH can make DNS communication more secure. "Access to global DNS data is commonly manipulated and can easily be blocked and/or collected," said McManus. "DNS services are also sometimes poorly provisioned creating performance problems. We posit that integrity and confidentiality protected access to well provisioned larger caches will help our users. In a nutshell, that's what DoH does." DNS queries and responses have traditionally been sent over UDP or TCP without encryption, making them vulnerable to interception and manipulation. There's an extension to DNS called DNSSEC designed to authenticate DNS interaction, to prevent spoofing, but it does nothing to protect the privacy of DNS queries or responses. TRR provides a way to select a trusted DNS resolver to handle requests, rather than an insecure plaintext resolver, via a more secure DNS-over-HTTPS server. McManus and another Mozilla engineer, Daniel Stenberg, want to understand how these protocols affect network performance, in the hope of eventually supporting them more broadly. But their plan is to conduct their seven-day test on an opt-out basis among half of the tens of thousands of people estimated to be running experimental Firefox Nightly builds, with the other half serving as the experiment's control group. The test involves sending all DNS lookups submitted by test participants to third-party security provider Cloudflare, and that makes some Firefox users uncomfortable. "Even if it is only Mozilla's nightly browser and for a short period of time I'm a bit disturbed about the possibility of an opt-out only 'send all visited hostnames to a third party US company' study," New Zealand-based developer Chris Double said via Twitter on Monday Henri Sivonen, a Mozilla software developer based in Helsinki, Finland, echoed this concern and suggested the experiment should not proceed in its proposed form. "Sending information about what is browsed to an off-path party will erode trust in Mozilla due to people getting upset about privacy-sensitive information ... getting sent to an off-path party without explicit consent," Sivonen wrote on Monday in a developer forum post. There's something endearingly quaint about fretting over a few thousand people's DNS queries being visible to a third-party like Cloudflare at a time when people are up in arms about Facebook's dispersal of data on 50 million users to data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica . The dustup harkens back to a time when one-pixel images used for tracking people online were referred to as " web bugs ," before the online ad industry succeeded in rebranding such things with the more positive term "web beacon." In a forum post , Mozilla senior technical writer Eric Shepherd acknowledges that the timing of the experiment is problematic in light of current events. "I definitely see some easy ways this could be problematic from a public relations perspective given things going on in the industry these days and some of our own mistakes the in the past," he said. "It's definitely worth taking a little while to consider the implications before throwing the switch." To fix the test, some members of the Mozilla community are calling for the tech trial to be opt-in, common in Europe but generally avoided and lobbied against in the US when possible (because few people bother to opt-in when presented with that choice). In a statement emailed to The Register , Selena Deckelmann, senior director of engineering for Firefox, said, "At Mozilla we work in the open. We are soliciting feedback on a study that is not yet underway about DNS over HTTPS. We are currently exploring what the right testing approach should be with users who have opted to participate by using Firefox Nightly." "We feel this technology could provide important protections against spying on people’s web browsing," said Deckelmann. "The way the web currently works, DNS traffic is unencrypted and shared with multiple parties, making data vulnerable to capture. Our proposed study would explore if there is an alternate and potentially more secure way to manage DNS traffic by first encrypting it." We now return you to your regular social media surveillance and subjugation. 


[w762]  By pushing the boundaries of acceptability, the tech giants have brought on their own nemesis     By pushing the boundaries of acceptability, the tech giants have brought on their own nemesis         


[w763]  


[w764]  Gains stateside in the previous session came after U.S. stocks pulled back at the beginning of the week as a fall in Facebook shares dragged on the tech sector. Regulators are looking into whether the social media giant potentially violated a consent decree following reports that data of 50 million Facebook users was accessed by Cambridge Analytica .   


[w765] Facebook whistleblower reveals hundreds of millions of users may have had their data harvested by other companies  Facebook whistleblower reveals hundreds of millions of users may have had their data harvested by other companies Sandy Parakilas, who worked as a Facebook platform operations manager, said a Friends Permission feature left the site with 'zero' control or oversight of user information A FORMER Facebook employee has revealed millions of users may have had their data harvested by third parties as anger over the use of personal info grows. Sandy Parakilas, who worked as a Facebook platform operations manager, said a Friends Permission feature left the site with “zero” control or oversight of user information. https://www.facebook.com/sandyparakilas Sandy Parakilas revealed what he described as 'horrifying' practices at Facebook regarding user data Speaking out about “horrifying” practices, Mr Parakilas told  The Guardian : “Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on.” And when he raised the issue with executives the whistleblower claims he was asked: “Do you really want to see what you’ll find?” He told the newspaper he took that to mean that, “Facebook was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening. “They felt that it was better not to know. I found that utterly shocking and horrifying.” Credit: True Images / Alamy Stock Photo Facebook may have allowed hundreds of millions of users' data to be harvested, the whistleblower said Mr Parakilas is due to give evidence to the Government on Wednesday. Facebook claims that it has changed its policies since 2012 when he left the company and denies any wrongdoing. But his explosive comments come as a former digital adviser to President Obama revealed how the 2012 campaign was able to access extraordinary amounts of personal information through Facebook. PA:Press Association Facebook is already embroiled in controversy over claims 50 million users' data was harvested by British firm Cambridge Analytica Carol Davidsen, the Obama for America (OFA) former director of integration and media analytics, tweeted Facebook was “very candid” that it allowed the Democratic organisation to do certain things because it supported them politically. She wrote: “Facebook was surprised we were able to suck out the whole social graph, but they didn’t stop us once they realised that was what we were doing. "They came to [the] office in the days following election recruiting [and] were very candid that they allowed us to do things they wouldn’t have allowed someone else to do because they were on our side.” Cambridge Analytica boss Alexander Nix was filmed boasting about using bribes, honey traps and Ukranian sex workers to swing elections MOST READ IN WORLD NEWS LOVE SICK LAST WORDS HOUNDING OF THE BICYCLES 'CANCER WAS A GIFT' STREETS OF RAGE FREE TOMMY DEMO A Washington Post report on Tuesday claimed “thousands” of other developers including those behind game FarmVille and Tinder were also able to siphon information about Facebook users. And British firm Cambridge Analytica has been at the centre of a Facebook data breach scandal after being accused of harvesting the data of tens of millions of social media users during the 2016 US election. The UK Information Commissioner is seeking a search warrant to enter the Cambridge Analytica offices following a lack of co-operation. Cambridge Analytica suspended its CEO Alexander Nix after he was filmed telling undercover reporters he could use Ukrainian prostitutes to entrap his clients' rivals. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook both deny wrongdoing. 

[w766]  Masters of the digital dark arts      Masters of the digital dark arts      What is Cambridge Analytica (CA)? The British-based data company specialises in research, marketing and other forms of — what critics call — propaganda. It was founded in 2013 and is part of parent company SCL Group. The company’s name was reportedly chosen by its then vice-president Steve Bannon, who later went on to become Donald Trump’s election campaign manager and aide. What is CA accused of doing? There are two main allegations. Firstly, it is said to have used private information collected from 50million Facebook users’ profiles via ‘personality’ quizzes and then used the data to try and influence voters on behalf of its clients. These include the Trump campaign in the 2016 US election and pro-Brexit supporters during the EU referendum. Secondly, secret filming of CA executives by Channel 4 News has led to claims the company may also have used bribery, ‘honey trap’ sex workers and other nefarious tactics to compromise political targets of their customers around the world. What is Facebook accused of doing? It’s claimed Facebook knew as early as 2015 that personal data had been harvested on a massive scale — but failed to alert users and allegedly took only limited steps to do anything about it. Can people be so easily manipulated into voting a certain way? This is a hotly-debated question, but some believe the answer is yes. They say by bombarding the public with messages from social media, individually-targeted adverts, websites and the press, it is possible to shape the way we think and therefore the way we vote. How have these claims emerged? Mainly due to whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, a former CA employee. The 28-year-old came forward and spoke to The Observer and New York Times newspapers. But there have also been inquiries into CA’s activities by authorities in the US and UK, including MPs. There was also a separate investigation by Channel 4 News, which began broadcasting its undercover filming this week after Mr Wylie went public. What do Cambridge Analytica and Facebook say? CA and Facebook both deny any wrongdoing. CA denies the claims and says that, while it was involved in the US election campaign, it had nothing to do with the Brexit referendum.          
[w767] 

[w768]  'Delete Facebook': WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton joins calls for users to leave social media giant  'Delete Facebook': WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton joins calls for users to leave social media giant                    Technology latest   Mark Zuckerberg feels wrath of investors at shareholder meeting  

[w769] #DeleteFacebook: Scores of people vow to shut down accounts after Cambridge Analytica data leak  Facebook  users are leaving the social media platform in droves following revelations that data for 50 million accounts leaked and was used in the campaign to elect Donald Trump. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook began trending worldwide on Tuesday after news broke that consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica  mined users' information for use in the 2016 US presidential campaign. The social media giant has suspended accounts held by Cambridge Analytica and parent firm Strategic Communication Laboratories and vowed to investigate the breach. Cambridge Analytica has denied misusing data. But it has not been enough to prevent a backlash.  How to delete Facebook and download a copy of your data As scores of people claimed on Twitter to be shutting down their accounts, one woman wrote: "It's not me, it's you. Goodbye. #DeleteFacebook" Another person wrote: "Finally deleted my @facebook account. If you're angry about what facebook has done with our data then just #deletefacebook." Britain's information commissioner Elizabeth Denham meanwhile launched her investigation into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, saying she is using all her legal powers. She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme she is pursuing a warrant to search the political consultancy's servers, and that she has meanwhile called on Facebook to drop its own internal audit of the data breach. She says Facebook has agreed.  "Our advice to Facebook is to back away and let us go in and do our work," she said.  Ms Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorised way, adding that the data provisions act requires platforms like Facebook to have strong safeguards against misuse of data.  The Information Commissioner said: "The Data Protection Act in the UK is a strong law, it's getting stronger, but we are looking at whether or not there was sufficient consent for individuals to be able to share their data with the application in the first place." Asked if she had enough powers, Ms Denham said: "I am currently using all the tools in my toolbox, all the powers I have under the law, and my powers are about to get stronger." Chris Wylie, who once worked for Cambridge Analytica, was quoted as saying the company used the data to build psychological profiles so voters could be targeted with ads and stories.  Ms Denham launched her investigation after weekend reports that Cambridge Analytica improperly used information from more than 50 million Facebook accounts. Facebook has suspended the company from the social network.   Facebook share price plunges amid Cambridge Analytica data scandal The data harvesting has also triggered calls for further investigation from the European Union, as well as federal and state officials in the United States.  In a statement, the Information Commissioner's Office said: "On March 7, the Information Commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, issued a Demand for Access to records and data in the hands of Cambridge Analytica. "Cambridge Analytica has not responded to the Commissioner by the deadline provided; therefore, the Information Commissioner is seeking a warrant to obtain information and access to systems and evidence related to her investigation. "On March 19, Facebook announced that it will stand down its search of Cambridge Analytica premises at the Information Commissioner's request. Such a search would potentially compromise a regulatory investigation." Cambridge Analytica has said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. On Tuesday its senior staff could be seen entering their office in central London. "We are not alone in using data from social media sites to extract user information," Cambridge Analytica said. "No Facebook data was used by our data science team in the 2016 presidential campaign." 


[w770]  The royal link to Cambridge Analytica​ Queen's cousin: Lady Helen Taylor (Photo by Stuart C. Wilson/Getty Images) Does Cambridge Analytica have a royal connection? Nigel Oakes, who founded the SCL Group which counts the company as an off-shoot, was something of that Eighties curiosity the “yuppie”, running a mobile disco, working for Saatchi & Saatchi and dating the Queen’s cousin, Lady Helen Taylor née Windsor.  Diarists of the era noted that Lady Helen “appalled the Queen when she smuggled boyfriend Nigel Oakes into York House, her parents’ grace and favour home in St James’s Palace”.  Oakes, rather ungallantly, revealed all about their love life to the Sunday Mirror a week after Lady Helen’s wedding to Tim Taylor. 

[w771] Watchdog tells Facebook to back off in scandal of 'stolen' data  Facebook told to withdraw team that was searching offices of Cambridge Analytica Elizabeth Denham, the Information Commissioner, racing to get court warrant to allow swoop  Elizabeth Denham said the watchdog had intervened to ask Facebook to withdraw a team that was searching CA’s offices   Britain’s data watchdog today revealed she told Facebook to “back away” from searching a company suspected of hijacking personal details of 50 million users over fears for the “integrity” of vital evidence. Elizabeth Denham, the Information Commissioner, was racing to get a court warrant to allow her own team to swoop on the offices of Cambridge Analytica in an probe into whether private data was illicitly exploited for political campaigns. The company has refused to give her officials access to its computers where, according to a whistleblower, files of secret Facebook records were held after they were meant to have been destroyed. Ms Denham said the watchdog had intervened to ask Facebook to withdraw a team that was  searching CA’s offices. “By Facebook going in at this point we were concerned about the integrity of our investigation,” Ms Denham told BBC Radio 4’s Today. Channel 4 used an undercover investigation to record Cambridge  ’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, saying that the company could use unorthodox methods to wage successful political campaigns (REUTERS) “We are also looking at Facebook at the same time, so our advice to Facebook was to back away, let us get in there as a regulator and do our work, and they have agreed.” She said: “We are seeking a warrant so that, as the regulator, we can go in and get to the bottom, search the servers, do a data audit.”  Facebook share price plunges amid Cambridge Analytica data scandal Facebook shares were set to fall for a second day running, with predictions that  another £3.5 billion would be wiped off the company’s value. Ms Denham criticised Facebook which yesterday sent its own team of lawyers and analysts, who were granted access by Cambridge Analytica. Facebook is under investigation over whether it secured and safeguarded confidential information belonging to its users. It is alleged that the data was harvested from the site by a firm that invited people to take a free personality test, which unlocked their accounts. The social media company confirmed it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytical still had the data. “Auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytic’s London office this evening,” the company said in a statement late Monday. “At the request of the UK Information Commissioner’s™Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down.” Cambridge Analytica is being probed for whether it obtained the data and held onto it, amid fears that such data was used to sway the 2016 Brexit referendum. MPs voiced fears that the activities of Cambridge Analytica could have swayed the EU referendum. The company pitched for a contract to send “individual” messages to voters on behalf of Leave.EU. Damian Collins, chair of the Culture Select Committee, which is investigating CA as part of a probe into fake news, said: “We can see that there was intent from bad actors including the Russians to put misinformation out there in the referendum. “We do not know the extent of it but our inquiry hopes to map it out.” Nicky Morgan, chair of the Treasury Select Committee, said she was concerned that voter were sent “misleading” messages in private, where they could not be scrutinised. “There is something very uncomfortable about people thinking they are filling in a fun survey on Facebook and their details being harvested for political campaigning,” she said. “I think it moves away from the spirit of campaigning in this country.” She said she had heard of some voters being bombarded with messages that claimed Turkey was about to join the EU, opening the gates to a wave of migrants. “It clearly was not true but they just kept repeating and repeating it. I would suspect that was the sort of thing that was turned into targeted messages sent to Leave voters.” Britain’s Channel 4 used an undercover investigation to record Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, saying that the company could use unorthodox methods to wage successful political campaigns for clients.  He said the company could “send some girls” around to a rival candidate’s house, suggesting that girls from Ukraine are beautiful and effective in this role.  He also said the company could “offer a large amount of money” to a rival candidate and have the whole exchange recorded so it could be posted on the internet to show that the candidate was corrupt.  Nix told BBC his company was being unfairly targeted: “We see this as a coordinated attack by the media that’s been going on for very, very many months in order to damage the company that had some involvement with the election of Donald Trump.”   He later denied  his comments reflected reality and he was “humouring” the reporter out of politeness. MI5 and MI6 may be called in to assist investigations if needed, a Cabinet minister told MPs in the Commons yesterday.  Culture Secretary Matt Hancock replied “yes” when asked by MP Ben Bradshaw if the security and intelligence services would be co-operating following allegations about Cambridge Analytica played a role in the referendum. Mr Hancock said today: “I would urge Cambridge Analytica to open up their doors and co-operate fully with the ICO investigation.” 


[w772] Cambridge Analytica latest: Facebook share price falls sharply as head of security denies he is leaving company   CA chief Alexander Nix, right, and managing director of CA Political Global Mark Turnbull, left, were filmed in meetings last year   ES News Email  Enter your email address or register with your social account  I would like to receive lunchtime headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Continue Already have an account? Log in Ad Placements Start Facebook ’s shares have fallen sharply as the company’s head of security was forced to deny he is set to quit over how it handles fake news. Some $37bn was wiped off the social network’s value on Monday night as it came under fire following allegations that data company Cambridge Analytica (CA) harvested personal details from more than 50 million of its users. Further claims about CA included allegations the company offered to entrap politicians and used ex-spies to dig for dirt on potential targets. The company denies the allegations. After the scandal broke, Facebook's Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos said on Twitter that while his role at the firm has changed he is still “fully engaged” with his work there. Reports suggested he was about to leave the firm due to an “internal dispute” over how to handle 'disinformation'. He had previously tweeted: "There are a lot of big problems that the big tech companies need to be better at fixing. "We have collectively been too optimistic about what we build and our impact on the world. Believe it or not, a lot of the people at these companies, from the interns to the CEOs, agree." CA was suspended from Facebook last week after it emerged that data on millions of users had not been destroyed as agreed.  Facebook Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos (REUTERS) Whistleblower Chris Wylie, a former research director at CA, told Channel 4 News a so-called data grab had been carried out on more than 50 million profiles in 2014. The UK data protection body is seeking a warrant to search CA’s offices. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham criticised the firm for being "uncooperative" with her probe as she confirmed the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) would apply for a warrant. Read more Warrant sought to search Cambridge Analytica's computers and servers Cambridge Analytica bosses 'boast of dirty tricks to swing elections' Facebook suspends London firm over alleged mass data harvesting Prime Minister Theresa May's spokesman said: "It is absolutely right that the Information Commissioner is investigating this matter. "We expect Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and all the organisations involved to co-operate fully." It is understood Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg could be hauled in front of MPs to explain his company's part in the scandal. CA's chief executive Alexander Nix has claimed his firm was the target of media attacks because of its role in US President Donald Trump's successful election campaign. An undercover investigation by Channel 4 recorded Mr Nix suggesting ways he could help a potential client.  Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) A reporter posing as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka met with him and other senior figures from CA. Asked about what "deep digging" could be done, Mr Nix told the reporter: "Oh, we do a lot more than that. "I mean deep digging is interesting but you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that's too good to be true, and make sure that that's video recorded, you know, these sorts of tactics are very effective instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things."  Mr Nix said the company has 'a long history of working behind the scenes' (Channel 4 News) He said they could "send some girls around to the candidate's house", adding that Ukrainian girls "are very beautiful, I find that works very well", Channel 4 reported. Mr Nix told BBC's Newsnight the Channel 4 sting was "intended to embarrass us". "We see this as a co-ordinated attack by the media that's been going on for very, very many months in order to damage the company that had some involvement with the election of Donald Trump," he said. Alexander Nix: CEO of Cambridge Analytica (REUTERS) Mr Nix said he had a "huge amount of regrets about the fact that we, maybe, undertook this meeting and spoke with a certain amount of hyperbole about some of the things that we do". A Cambridge Analytica spokesman said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called “honey-traps” for any purpose whatsoever.” “Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose.” 

[w773]  Billions wiped off of Facebook's market cap over data mismanagement issues  						  Oh Zuck A data scandal at Facebook in addition to a possible 3% revenue tax by the EU on large techs, saw Facebook shares dump 6.8%, wiping $37 billion off its value in its worst trading day in 4 years. Concerns over data mismanagement at the world’s largest social media firm weighed on sentiment, driving technology stock across the board lower by some 2.5%. inline ad asset fallback content /2590626/LLB_hp_article_462x100_1 Jasper Lawler at LCG Research said: “This is not the first time that Facebook have been caught being lax over their controls; both users and regulators are going to want this to be the last or at least see the firm go to extraordinary lengths to prevent incidences like this happening again. The next few weeks will be crucial as to how Facebook responds to the allegation. Increased regulations have the potential to hit advertising, reducing the principal source of income for the tech giant.” The Dow wiped out its year to date gains, diving 330 points, the S&P; closed 1.4% lower whilst the Nasdaq closed 1.8% lower. All major US indices closed off their lows but that wasn’t sufficient to support trading in Asia -Pacific, which experienced large losses early on. However, it has aided European bourses in heading towards a higher start on the open. Yesterday Prime Minister Theresa May said allegations that Facebook users’ profiles were mined for data used to produce micro-targeted political adverts without their knowledge “are clearly very concerning”. “It is essential that people can have confidence that their personal data will be protected and used in an appropriate way,” the Prime Minister’s spokesman said. “It is absolutely right that the Information Commissioner is investigating this matter. We expect Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and all the organisations involved to cooperate fully.” 

[w774]        The value of Facebook’s shares has fallen because of that big data breach    Investors are scared governments are going to crack down on how tech companies use data      Facebook's under a lot of pressure after it was revealed that a firm with links to Trump's 2016 election campaign had harvested information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles. What it means : The accusation is that the company, Cambridge Analytica, used the data to influence US voters in the election. It's been a huge scandal in both the US and Europe, and politicians have called for a closer examination of what tech firms are doing and how they work. Investors are scared that the revelations will mean greater government involvement – or    – of tech firms, which could hit their profits. When investors buy a share in a company, they're essentially betting its profits will improve and the company will get bigger. That means the shares they've bought will get more valuable. When investors get wind that might not happen, they sell their shares. When investors start selling their shares, they become *even* less valuable. The value of shares in Facebook fell by nearly $40 billion in one day.  


[w775]  Is leaving Facebook the only way to protect your data?   Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal  Allegations that research firm Cambridge Analytica misused the data of 50 million Facebook users have reopened the debate about how information on the social network is shared and with whom. Data is like oil to Facebook - it is what brings advertisers to the platform, who in turn make it money. And there is no question that Facebook has the ability to build detailed and sophisticated profiles on users' likes, dislikes, lifestyles and political leanings. The bigger question becomes - what does it share with others and what can users do to regain control of their information? Want to see what you look like as a Hollywood star? Click here. We've all seen these quizzes - offering to test your IQ, reveal your inner personality, or show you what you'd look like if you were a glamorous actor. It was information from one such Facebook quiz - This is Your Digital Life - that Cambridge Analytica is alleged to have used to harvest the data of millions of people. Many such quizzes come with reassurances that your data is safe. These games and quizzes are designed to tempt users in but they are often just a shop front for mass data collection - and one that Facebook's terms and conditions allow. Privacy advocates Electronic Frontier Foundation said the way these quizzes collected data reflected "how Facebook's terms of service and API were structured at the time". Facebook has changed its terms and conditions to cut down on the information that third parties can collect, specifically stopping them from accessing data about users' friends. It is not yet clear exactly what information the firm got hold of - this is now subject to an investigation by the UK data protection authority, the ICO. What can users do to protect their information? Log in to Facebook and visit the App settings page Click edit button under Apps, Websites and Plugins Disable platform This will mean that you won't be able to use third-party sites on Facebook and if that is is a step too far, there is a way of limiting the personal information accessible by apps while still using them: Log into Facebook's App settings page Unclick every category you don't want the app to access, which includes bio, birthday, family, religious views, if you are online, posts on your timeline, activities and interests There are some others pieces of advice too. "Never click on a 'like' button on a product service page and if you want to play these games and quizzes, don't log in through Facebook but go directly to the site," said Paul Bernal, a lecturer in Information Technology, Intellectual Property and Media Law in the University of East Anglia School of Law. "Using Facebook Login is easy but doing so, grants the app's developer access to a range of information from their Facebook profiles," he added. How else can you protect your Facebook data? There really is only one way to make sure data we create on a daily basis remains entirely private, thinks Dr Bernal. "Leave Facebook." "The incentive Facebook will have to protect people more will only come if people start leaving. Currently it has very little incentive to change," he told the BBC. It seems he is not alone in his call - the hashtag #DeleteFacebook is now trending on Twitter in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. But Dr Bernal acknowledges that it is unlikely many will quit - especially those who see Facebook as "part of the infrastructure of their lives". The less drastic option is deactivation, which stops an account from appearing in search results but gives the user the option to bring it back. It would stop future tracking but means all the information already collected will still be kept. For those that decide deletion is the best option, users can head to the delete my account page , which explains that once gone, information cannot be retrieved. The page is not easy to find on the site and requires quite a few steps: From the top right of the blue bar, click the downward arrow Select settings Click General Click Manage Account Click Request Deletion In the pop-up box, which is aimed at people who want to delete their account in the event of their death, click Learn More Scroll down to the section headed Deleting Your Account and click on the link Facebook advises users who delete their account to download a copy of their information before they delete it. They also warn users that the process can take up to 90 days, during which time the information is inaccessible to others using the platform. Can you find out what data on you is stored? Under current data protection rules, users can make a Subject Access Request to individual firms to find out how much information they have on them. When Austrian privacy advocate Max Schrems made such a request to Facebook in 2011, he was given a CD with 1,200 files stored on it. He found that the social network kept records of all the IP addresses of machines he used to access the site, a full history of messages and chats, his location and even items that he thought he had deleted, such as messages, status updates and wall posts. But in a world where Facebook information is shared more widely with third parties, making such a request gets harder. As Dr Bernal says: "How do you ask for your data when you don't know who to ask?" That is likely to change this summer with the introduction of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which aims to make it far easier for users to take back control of their data. The threat of big fines for firms that do not comply with such requests could make it more likely that they will share this information, which must be given to consumers "in a clear and readable form". How long is data kept? Data protection laws in Europe suggest that firms should only keep user data "as long as necessary" but the interpretation of this can be very flexible. In Facebook's case, this means that as long as the person posting something does not delete it, it will remain online indefinitely. Can you delete historic data? Users can delete their accounts, which in theory will "kill" all their past posts but Facebook encourages those who wish to take a break from the social network simply to deactivate them, in case they wish to return. And it must be remembered that a lot of information about you will remain on the platform, from the posts of your friends. One of the biggest changes of GDPR will be the right for people to be forgotten and, under these changes it should, in theory, be much easier to wipe your social network or other online history from existence. 

[w776]       The 2017 election spend shows our fear of the Cambridge Analytica saga can easily be overstated  The 2017 election spend shows our fear of the Cambridge Analytica saga can easily be overstated Facebook Ultimately, you can’t sell a duff product    As the fallout from the Cambridge Analytica revelations  have continued apace, people have been up in arms that our very democratic agency was being stolen from us by mysteriously dark forces aware of every aspect of our psychological profiles. In the age of targeted Facebook advertising, is the very notion of democracy an illusion? No, no it’s not, and the proof also surfaced at the same time as the Cambridge Analytica revelations, albeit with considerably less of a deafening clatter. On Monday, the Electoral Commission published spending from every UK party that spent more than £250,000 campaigning in last year’s general election, and it’s pretty clear that throwing money at Facebook doesn’t get you over the line. In total, £3,177,296.68 was spent on Facebook by eight parties. Of that, £2,118,045.95 was from the Conservative Party, £577,542.19 was from Labour, and £412,329.31 was from the Liberal Democrats. And what did this spending achieve? Let’s have a quick reminder: Conservatives: 317 seats (-13) Labour: 262 seats (+33) Liberal Democrats: 12 seats (+4) The SNP, which was being vaunted as a Facebook success story just two years earlier , spent £43,345.44 and lost 21 of its seats in the process. It’s a similar story with Google spend. The Conservatives spent £562,000, Labour £255,000 and the Liberal Democrats £204,000. You can play with the data yourself here , looking up everything from manifesto costs to the amount each party spent on food (the Liberal Democrats, in particular, were very helpful with their labelling, meaning enterprising sorts have been able to rank their preference of burger bar. ) If you break down each party’s spend, and then divide it by the number of seats they won, some interesting patterns emerge. Labour spent 85p per vote won, while the Conservatives spent £1.36 – each Women’s Equality Party vote cost £79.79, while a Ukip vote was a bargain at just 46p. Of course, this doesn’t translate to seats in parliament, where each Labour seat cost £42,000 to the Tories’ £58,565. Ukip and the Women’s Equality Party won no seats, meaning their spending eventually came to nought, and the Liberal Democrats spent a massive £565,693 on each of their 12 seats. Can’t buy elections? To be clear, there has been no suggestion that any of the parties in the 2017 election consulted Cambridge Analytica, favouring marketing firms and Facebook's own tools to promote their messages. Only it seems that the clever Facebook targeting that worked so well for the Conservatives in 2015 failed to launch just two years later, and they were outmanoeuvred by an opposition that spent just a quarter of their budget on markedly better results. In other words, people won't do what you want just because you can talk to them directly. Cambridge Analytica itself went with such an argument in its defence, saying on Twitter that: “Advertising is not coercive; people are smarter than that.” Looking at the data from last year, it seems they have a point. See related  Facebook hits 2 billion users, as it grapples with what it’s become Cambridge Analytica and Facebook: What happened and did the company shift many votes? Facebook removes boast that it helped the SNP win big in 2015 Total expenditure is not the be all and end all, of course, and there is such a thing as spending money well. Labour-sympathetic Facebook posts on the ivory trade and fox hunting were far more effective at capturing the public mood than videos reminding voters that Jeremy Corbyn made some suspect choices during an era than the majority of his keenest supporters don’t remember. Plus it’s worth reiterating that nobody can know for sure the impact online advertising can have on electorates. Facebook’s own research indicates it can boost (and therefore presumably suppress) voter turnout with a profile badge saying “I voted”, but without two identical countries and electorates to experiment with (plus a third control nation) we really are left guessing whether 73p of Russian spend on the EU referendum is a smoking gun, a damp squib or something in between. It’s possible that without the Facebook spend, the Conservatives would have lost not just their majority, but the entire election, although I doubt it. So is the impact of Cambridge Analytica being overblown? Well, maybe, in the sense that it's in any company's interests to play up its successes. Proving that Cambridge Analytica can make all the difference is all but impossible when trying to unpick cause and effect with an electorate of millions. In another sense, no: effectiveness is beside the point: if Facebook and/or Cambridge Analytica are found to have behaved unethically, then this could have huge repercussions on data protection and the power of internet giants. The data absorption of Facebook, for years a fringe interest, is suddenly front and centre, and people openly questioning the hidden costs of a 'free' platform is a potential watershed moment. As the old mantra goes, if you're not paying for the product, you  are  the product.  That said, however, I think the real take-home here is one of hope: for all our fears that shady operatives can bend the whims of the general public with big data and unscrupulous electioneering, it does look like one cast-iron law of politics can’t be beaten: in a true democracy, you can’t sell a duff product. 

[w777] 

[w778]   Addicts of Facebook and pals are easy prey for manipulative scumbags – thanks to tech giants' 'extraordinary reach'  Facebook stockholders tell Zuck to reform voting rules as data scandal branded 'human rights violation'  Addicts of Facebook and pals are easy prey for manipulative scumbags – thanks to tech giants' 'extraordinary reach' Let me at 'em, growls EU privacy watchdog        Relying on internet giants' goodwill to stop the spread of misinformation online and prevent the manipulation of netizens has failed, Europe's top data protection watchdog has said, adding that regulators now need to take action. Giovanni Buttarelli, the European Data Protection Supervisor, emitted this well-timed opinion yesterday on the effects of, and antidotes to, websites microtargeting people using their intimate information. Rather than show netizens a well-rounded, balanced view of the world, through links, ads and posts in news feeds, social networks and similar sites can feed their addicts a diet of slanted information that taps into their prejudices, fuels their fears, and manipulates their knowledge and feelings to political or commercial ends. All of this is possible using their personal and private information. And that's just not cricket, says Buttarelli. Here's a key quote from the watchdog's opinion statement: A personalised, microtargeted online environment creates ‘filter-bubbles’ where people are exposed to ‘more-of-the-same’ information and encounter fewer opinions, resulting in increased political and ideological polarisation. It increases the pervasiveness and persuasiveness of false stories and conspiracies. Research suggests that the manipulation of people’s newsfeed or search results could influence their voting behaviour. Running to 31 pages, Buttarelli's missive was not thrown together overnight in response to The Observer 's weekend Cambridge Analytica bombshell . It appears to be conveniently timed, with brief references to the latest reports alongside older allegations: many politicians and newspapers seem to have forgotten that CA's data harvesting was first revealed by a Guardian investigation back in 2015. Thanks to the weekend's revelations, though, an EU document that may have otherwise languished on some hidden website will no doubt now have a greater impact, as policymakers are already coming down hard on Facebook . The opinion describes Facebook and its peers as gatekeepers to the internet who have gained disproportionately from the boom in digital advertising that has sucked up every Tom, Dick and Harry's personal information and fed it into all manner of data-crunching machines and algorithms. Buttarelli argued that while the tech giants enjoyed bigger market caps than any other in recorded history, as their business models took off over the past two decades, the effect on individuals has been markedly different. For users, he said, the rise in social platforms has been a double-edged sword, as communities are more connected but increasingly divided by online manipulations and viral outrage. Meanwhile, increased surveillance by governments and companies is having a chilling effect on people's willingness to express themselves freely, to such an extent that it risks damaging the "health of democracy." Although misinformation and manipulation are as old as humankind – particularly in political campaigning – Buttarelli said that rapid digitization had changed the nature of the issue. In the past, political parties would have had limited amounts of data on their constituents; now there's a treasure trove of information to be gleaned from scraping social media sites. This "extraordinary reach" of online platforms – which are bigger than TV or newspapers, and in some countries the sole entry point to the internet – "offer an easy target for people seeking to use the system for malicious ends," he said. The ability to use technology to manipulate people and the information that they see has created the aforementioned filter bubbles, which polarize opinions, and increase the pervasiveness and persuasiveness of false stories. Online manipulation is "a symptom of the opacity and lack of accountability in the digital ecosystem," he said, and will only get worse as more people and things are connected, and artificial intelligence further blurs the lines of accountability. "At the root of the problem is partly the irresponsible, illegal or unethical use of personal information," Buttarelli said. Part of the solution must be data protection – "perhaps a bigger part than expected," he added. But, he continued, no single player or sector can do this alone, and he called for regulators to work across sectors – data protection, consumer rights and anti-trust – while rigorously enforcing those rules. His formal opinion makes clear that his patience with social media companies is wearing thin. BOOM! Cambridge Analytica explodes following extraordinary TV expose The text is littered with references to the underhand – perceived or otherwise – practices employed by all those who have been complicit in generating the state of affairs, which Buttarelli argued risks weakening the "social glue" that, in his view, underpins democracy. These run from dense privacy policies to product design that bakes in addictive qualities, such as auto-playing videos and constant alerts and notifications. At the same time, he pointed the finger at others, saying that existing efforts to tackle fake news have focused too much on exposing the source of information while "neglecting the accountability of players in the ecosystem who profit from harmful behaviour". Although he did not call for an increase in regulation per se , Buttarelli emphasised the need for stronger enforcement of the EU's imminent General Data Protection Regulation, as well as efforts to encourage the public to make better use of the increased rights it will grant them. The same is true for the EU e-Privacy Regulation , which is currently under review by member states, and in which he wants to see a "complete and explicit" ban on tracking walls and on the practice of excluding users who have ad-blocking enabled. "It is not enough to rely on the goodwill of ultimately unaccountable commercial players," he said. "We need now to intervene in the interests of spreading more fairly the benefits of digitisation." 

[w779] 

[w780]  Cambridge Analytica: Facebook 'being investigated by FTC'Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal  The US Federal Trade Commission is reported to be investigating Facebook after allegations that 50 million users' private information was misused by a political consultancy firm. Cambridge Analytica (CA), hired by the Trump campaign in the 2016 US election, has been accused of taking the personal data unknown to users. CA head Alexander Nix has now been suspended by the company board. The move came amid allegations the firm may have broken US electoral law. CA, which is based in London, denies any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Facebook's stock has continued to slide , following a steep decline on Monday. The British and European parliaments have called on Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence to them. , and the social network is due to brief congressional aides on Wednesday. Mr Zuckerberg did not attend a Facebook staff briefing on the crisis at its Californian headquarters on Tuesday , which was led by deputy general counsel Paul Grewal instead, the Daily Beast news site reports . Where is Mark Zuckerberg? The global reach of Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica: The story so far End of self-regulation era? By Dave Lee, North America Technology Reporter, BBC News The criticisms of Facebook, and in particular Mark Zuckerberg, have never been louder or angrier. Employees at the company were addressed this morning not by their chief executive, but by one of the company's top lawyers. A Facebook spokeswoman said both Mr Zuckerberg and his deputy Sheryl Sandberg were too busy to address staff themselves. The firm added it was "outraged to be deceived" by Cambridge Analytica. A sign, perhaps, that Facebook is doubling down on the view that it is the victim. On Wednesday Facebook will send representatives to Washington to answer to Congress - the first step on what is set to be something of a world tour of explaining to investigators how on Earth this activity was able to happen. The loss to Facebook's value has been more than $60bn (£43bn) since this news broke. The wider impact for Silicon Valley is that it seems the era of tech companies essentially regulating themselves is perhaps coming to a dramatic end. Why is the FTC getting involved? The FTC is an independent agency of the US government tasked with protecting American consumers. It is investigating whether Facebook violated the terms of a 2011 decree regarding the social network's privacy protections , an unnamed source "familiar with the agency's thinking and not authorised to speak on the record" told the Washington Post newspaper. This was confirmed by a Bloomberg news agency report , quoting an unnamed "person familiar with the matter". Under the 2011 decree, Facebook must notify users and obtain their permission before data about them is shared beyond the privacy settings they have established, the Washington Post says. Facebook was also subjected to 20 years of privacy checkups to ensure compliance. Facebook confirmed on Tuesday that it was expecting to receive a letter from the FTC with questions about the data acquired by CA. However, it also said it had had no indication of a formal investigation, Reuters news agency reports. "We remain strongly committed to protecting people's information," Facebook deputy chief privacy officer Rob Sherman said. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have." In its statement on Tuesday, it said: "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens." How to protect your Facebook data Facebook data sharing - time to act? What are the accusations against CA? Christopher Wylie, who worked with the consultancy firm, alleges that it amassed large amounts of data through a personality quiz on Facebook called This is Your Digital Life. Media playback is unsupported on your device Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, was filmed by undercover reporters for Channel 4 News He says that 270,000 people took the quiz but the data of some 50 million users, mainly in the US, was harvested without their explicit consent via their friend networks. Mr Wylie says that data was sold to CA, which then used it to psychologically profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them, with a view to influencing the outcome of the 2016 election. CA insists it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data - but it was suspended from Facebook last week. Did CA break US electoral law? Channel 4 News, which conducted an undercover investigation into the consultancy firm, reports that it may have broken US electoral law, which prohibits co-ordination between an official election campaign and outside groups, or "Super PACs". CA executives were filmed discussing a twin-track strategy to campaigning , putting out positive messages through Donald Trump's official presidential campaign, while attack ads were promoted by outside organisations. Boasting about CA's work for the Trump campaign, Mr Nix told the undercover team: "We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy." At the same time, CA managing director Mark Turnbull appeared to confirm for the undercover team that CA had created the Defeat Crooked Hillary brand of attack ads, funded by a super-PAC called Make America Number 1. The firm has denied wrongdoing, saying they operated according to a strict firewall and that they were transparent about their activities. How can you protect your data on Facebook? There are a few things to be aware of if you want to restrict who has access to your data: Keep an eye on apps, especially those which require you to log in using your Facebook account - they often have a very wide range of permissions and many are specifically designed to pick up your data Use an ad blocker to limit advertising Look at your Facebook security settings and make sure you are aware of what is enabled. Check the individual app settings to see whether you have given them permission to view your friends as well as yourself. You can download a copy of the data Facebook holds on you, although it is not comprehensive. There is a download button at the bottom of the General Account Settings tab. However bear in mind that your data may be less secure sitting on your laptop than it is on Facebook's servers, if your device is hacked. You can of course, simply leave Facebook, but the campaign group Privacy International warns that privacy concerns extend beyond the social network. "The current focus is on protecting your data being exploited by third parties, but your data is being exploited all the time," said a spokeswoman. "Many apps on your phone will have permission to access location data, your entire phone book and so on. It is just the tip of the iceberg." 

[w786]   

[w787]   European, UK and US pols summon Zuckerberg as FTC eyes probe of Facebook over data violations  The fallout from the story concerning Facebook, Cambridge Analytica, the misuse of personal data and how much Facebook knew about all this, has quickly made its way into the halls of government — and with it Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg is getting a lot of invitations in his inbox. This afternoon, Antonio Tajani, the president of the European Parliament, publicly issued a call to Zuckerberg to appear before state members to answer questions about personal data on Facebook and the role it plays in swaying elections. “Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy,” he said. The invitation follows calls out of the UK and US for appearances from Zuck, too. Earlier today, Damian Collins, a member of parliament who is the chair of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport select committee in the UK, issued a request to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to provide oral evidence to the committee. Meanwhile, Mark Warner, the U.S. Senator who is vice chair of the Intelligence Committee, has also requested that Zuckerberg, along with other tech CEOs, testify in order to answer questions about Facebook’s role in “social manipulation” in the 2016 election. Meanwhile, Bloomberg is also  reporting that the Federal Trade Commission is opening a probe into Facebook and the misuse of personal data, related to a consent decree that was issued in 2011 over the social network’s personal data handling policies. The FTC said it could not comment on any probe, but it hinted that past precedence, involving Google, indicating that violations of consent decrees are taken seriously and investigated. “We are aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating,” it said in a statement a spokesperson provided to TechCrunch. “We take any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously as we did in 2012 in a privacy case involving  Google .” “We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information. We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have,” Rob Sherman, Deputy Chief Privacy Officer of Facebook, said in response to the report. The original decree  was made as a settlement to an inquiry at the time into how Facebook — then just a startup but growing wildly fast — “deceived consumers by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public,” and it arose specifically in relation to how third-party apps were able to use and access this data. This is key because the original survey that users filled out was, in fact, an app of sorts, linking into Facebook by way of its API. The idea behind the FTC settlement in 2011 was to ensure that Facebook made its privacy and data handling policies clear to consumers going forward, and to get their “express consent” before information is shared beyond the privacy settings those users established. Specific details of the 2011 decree included barring Facebook from making misrepresentations about privacy and security of personal information; getting user consent before making change that override privacy preferences; preventing material to be shared after an account was deleted or deactivated; and maintaining a privacy program assessing risks and getting this audited every two years. The decree also notes that it will terminate 20 years from the date of being issued, but that it will renew for another 20 years each time that the FTC files a complaint over any violations — meaning, if the FTC does file a complaint and is successful in determining the violation, it will prolong Facebook’s own need to report and make clear privacy policies to its users. Policians call on Zuck to answer for the company The trio of calls from government representatives asking for Zuckerberg to make an appearance himself to discuss the role of Facebook is notable not least because it is coming from so many places at once — a loud chorus that may well finally provide the pressure needed to see the executive come out from behind his status updates. To be clear, Warner’s public call for Zuckerberg to speak, delivered earlier this morning by way of a Tweet, was not the first time that the Intel Committee has requested Zuckerberg to testify: it had also invited him to the original hearing in November of last year, where lawyers were sent instead. It's time for Mr. Zuckerberg and the other CEOs to testify before Congress. The American people deserve answers about social media manipulation in the 2016 election. — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) March 20, 2018 Meanwhile, Collins’ invitation also comes in the wake of other requests for top Facebook executives, for hearings that the DCMS has held both in London and, just weeks ago, in Washington in an attempt to attract more senior executives to participate. “The Committtee has repeatedly asked Facebook about how companies acquire and hold on to user data from their site, and in particular about whether data had been taken without their consent,” Collins writes in his letter. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk, and have been misleading to the Committee. It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process.” Facebook has until March 26 to respond to the invitation. “We have received a letter from the Digital, Culture, Media and Sports Committee and will of course respond by the given deadline,” a spokesperson said. “In the meantime, we continue to engage with the Committee and respond to their requests for information.” Most damning of all perhaps is the call from the European Parliament president, with its note putting Facebook on the defensive from the word go, but also potentially giving the company an avenue to try to explain itself better than it has. We’ve invited Mark Zuckerberg to the European Parliament. Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy. — Antonio Tajani (@EP_President) March 20, 2018 Indeed, the thinking now seems to be that the increased attention, and the revelations in the media, will now force Facebook’s hand a bit more than before. The summons to give evidence before the parliamentary committee or Congress are not legally binding, but they are significant for other reasons. For one, they provide a moment to hear Zuckerberg give live responses to questions as they are presented to him: up to now, a lot of what we’ve heard from the CEO on the subject of Facebook and its position in the wider issue of elections, fake news and the use of social media help achieve certain outcomes, has largely come in the form of long Facebook posts by him, with little in the way of dialogue (which is in itself a little ironic when you consider the whole point of Facebook is supposed to be about engagement). While there are no direct legal ramifications for testifying, what it does do is provide more evidence for lawmakers. At a time when we have relatively light regulation for social media and how it handles data in the US, this could become a critical moment where we may start to see more calls and efforts to start to regulate this area of digital media more carefully. A third reason why testifying is notable is because of the optics: for a lot of people who do not understand and care much about the intricacies of how social networks handle their data, this could bring new light to the topic, on both sides of the table. Perhaps especially important for Zuckerberg if he’s truly considering a run for public office sometime in the future, as some have reported. “We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” said Paul Grewal, VP and Deputy General Counsel, in a statement provided to TechCrunch. Updated with response from the FTC, comments from the European Parliament president, and also Facebook’s comments. 


[w788]  Cambridge Analytica Facebook Mark Zuckerberg Privacy Security  Federal lawmakers are now calling for Mark Zuckerberg to personally testify before Congress after bombshell reports revealed late last week that the shadowy political consultancy Cambridge Analytica acquired personal information on as many as 50 million Facebook users, many without their explicit permission. Facebook remains under fire as British and American authorities are demanding an explanation, not only as to how Cambridge Analytica gained access to Facebook’s data, but as for why it took years for Facebook to notify the public. Sen. Mark Warner, vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, tweeted Tuesday morning it was time for “Mr. Zuckerberg and other CEOs” to testify before Congress. “The American people deserve answers about social media manipulation in the 2016 election,” he said. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, reportedly echoed Warner’s call while speaking with reporters Tuesday morning, saying that legislation may be required “if the industry won’t solve these kinds of problems themselves.” Advertisement Sen. Feinstein told Gizmodo by email that she was concerned that Cambridge Analytica may have used private Facebook data to assist the Trump campaign. (The firm, founded in 2013 with backing from the billionaire Republican donor Robert Mercer, consulted for Trump during the 2016 election.) Feinstein said the Senate Judiciary Committee needed to hear from Cambridge Analytica, the Trump campaign, and Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower and former Cambridge Analytica employee who brought to light the misuse of Facebook’s data. “It would also be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors,” Feinstein added. “We have a lot of questions about how this information was used, whether it was given to Russia and whether Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign communicated with WikiLeaks. These questions need answers.” Advertisement Revealed on Monday, an undercover string orchestrated by British reporters at Channel 4 News caught CEO Alexander Nix and other executives boasting about using fake news, bribes, and sex workers to target politicians. At one point in the video, Nix suggests the consultancy might “send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things.” Video evidence notwithstanding, Cambridge Analytica has denied ever using honey-pots or offers of bribes to entrap political opponents. Facebook did not respond to an inquiry regarding the potential for Zuckerberg to testify in person, pointing instead to a statement issued yesterday by Facebook vice president and deputy general counsel, Paul Grewal: “We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information.” Advertisement It’s unclear how far a Facebook investigation into Cambridge Analytica’s misuse of user data could actually get at the moment. Facebook said it dispatched forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to Cambridge Analytica’s London offices yesterday evening. However, the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office reportedly ordered the auditors to leave the premises, pending a warrant granting British authorities access to the company’s computers and servers. If US lawmakers won’t compel Zuckerberg to testify, the British House of Commons may try instead . In letter circulated via Twitter , British lawmakers have requested that Zuckerberg “appear before us to give oral evidence.” Advertisement During hearings last fall into Moscow’s use of Facebook and other social media to influence US voters, Zuckerberg’s absence was glaring. Sen. Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses with the Democrats for committee purposes, memorably chided the CEOs of Facebook, Twitter, and Google during a November intelligence hearing. “I’m disappointed that you’re here and not your CEOs,” King told a group of corporate attorneys. “We would appreciate seeing the top people who are actually making the decisions.” Sen. Joe Manchin echoed the same: “I wish that your CEOs would be here. They need to answer for this.” But beyond the shellacking Facebook is suffering on Wall Street—the company’s stock price is down another 5 percent today, as of this writing, following a precipitous drop on Monday—it’s hard to say whether anyone will “answer for this.” Zuckerberg’s net worth reportedly dropped by around $5 billion by end-of-business Monday, but according to MarketWatch , a financial website run by Dow Jones & Company, Zuckerberg sold roughly 5 million Facebook shares this year already, potentially saving him up to $40 million in losses. Advertisement According to Bloomberg’s sources , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has begun probing whether the social media company had violated a 2012 consent decree over the use of personal data. The FTC told Gizmodo that it could neither confirm nor deny an investigation was underway, adding it takes all allegations regarding violations of its consent decrees seriously. Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer reportedly told Reuters that the company would “appreciate the opportunity” to answer any questions the FTC might have. Senators Richard Burr and Chuck Grassley, the top Republicans on the Senate intelligence and judiciary committees, respectively, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 

[w789] 

[w790]  Here (Was Once) a Photo of Cambridge Analytica’s CEO With the Russian Ambassador to the UK  “Truth is relative”: Trump and Giuliani make the case to support MoJo ’s new reporting project to combat disinformation. Here (Was Once) a Photo of Cambridge Analytica’s CEO With the Russian Ambassador to the UK One of these men boasted of blackmailing politicians. The other is Putin’s representative.  . The photographer, Tony Ramirez, has asked us to remove the photo of Alexander Nix and Alexander Yakovenko, the Russian ambassador to the United Kingdom. We have done so. The photo is now password-protected on the photographer’s website. Original story : Alexander Nix, the CEO of Cambridge Analytica, made splashy headlines this week when Britain’s Channel 4 News broadcast undercover video of Nix and a colleague boasting that their firm  entraps politicians through sting operations using fake businessmen offering bribes and covert seduction schemes involving Ukrainian women. Nix’s company, which is best known for its work with Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, has also been in the news for sneakily acquiring data on as many as 50 million Facebook users for its own secretive purposes. Cambridge Analytica denied wrongdoing in the Channel 4 investigation. But the hidden-camera video was quite damning. The footage, though, was a bit grainy. So here is a clearer shot of Nix, snapped during a polo match in which he played on July 28, 2016. He happens to be posing with Alexander Yakovenko, the Russian ambassador to the United Kingdom. The photo was taken days after Democratic National Committee files and emails hacked by Russian intelligence were dumped online by WikiLeaks at the start of the Democratic Party’s convention. The previous month, the Trump campaign had hired Nix’s company, and by this point, it had been widely reported that Russian intelligence was behind the DNC hack. The photograph was part of a series of snaps on a website presenting polo photos for purchase. Journalists, researchers, and congressional investigators have wondered about any ties between Cambridge Analytica and Russia. This photo is hardly evidence of an untoward connection. But last year a Huffington Post article on Robert and Rebekah Mercer, the super-wealthy, right-wing backers of Cambridge Analytica, did note that Rebekah, at one meeting with Nix, was highly impressed by Nix’s polo skills, gushing about his prowess and asking him to show cellphone photos of himself on horseback. 


[w791]  Cambridge Analytica execs boast of role in getting Donald Trump elected        Cambridge Analytica execs boast of role in getting Donald Trump elected  What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer Senior executives from the firm at the heart of Facebook’s data breach boasted of playing a key role in bringing Donald Trump to power and said they used “unattributable and untrackable” advertising to support their clients in elections, according to an undercover expose. Cambridge University asks Facebook for evidence about role of academic Read more In secretly recorded conversations, Cambridge Analytica’s CEO, Alexander Nix, claimed he had met Trump “many times”, while another senior member of staff said the firm was behind the “defeat crooked Hillary” advertising campaign. “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again over time to watch it take shape,” said the executive. “And so this stuff infiltrates the online community, but with no branding, so it’s unattributable, untrackable.” Caught on camera by an undercover team from Channel 4 News, Nix was also dismissive of Democrats on the House intelligence committee, who had questioned him over Russian meddling in the 2016 campaign. Senior managers then appeared to suggest that in their work for US clients, there was planned division of work between official campaigns and unaffiliated “political action groups”. MPs summon Mark Zuckerberg and accuse Facebook of misleading them Read more That could be considered coordination – which is not allowed under US election law. The firm has denied any wrongdoing. Cambridge Analytica said it had a firewall policy in place, signed by all staff and strictly enforced. The disclosures are the latest to hit Cambridge Analytica, which has been under mounting pressure since Sunday, when the Observer reported the company had unauthorised access to tens of millions of Facebook profiles – and used them to build a political targeting system. In Tuesday’s second instalment of an undercover investigation by Channel 4 News in association with the Observer, Nix said he had a close working relationship with Trump and claimed Cambridge Analytica was pivotal to his successful campaign. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy,” he told reporters who were posing as potential clients from Sri Lanka. The company’s head of data, Alex Tayler, added: “When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3m votes but won the electoral college vote that’s down to the data and the research. “You did your rallies in the right locations, you moved more people out in those key swing states on election day. That’s how he won the election.”    Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Read more Another executive, Mark Turnbull, managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division, was recorded saying: “He won by 40,000 votes in three states. The margins were tiny.” Turnbull took credit for one of the most well known and controversial campaigns of the last presidential campaign, organised by the political action group Make America Number 1. “The brand was ‘Defeat Crooked Hillary’. You’ll remember this of course?” he told the undercover reporter. “The zeros, the OO of crooked were a pair of handcuffs ... We made hundreds of different kinds of creative, and we put it online.” Turnbull said the company sometimes used “proxy organisations”, including charities and activist groups, to help disseminate the messages – and keep the company’s involvement in the background. When the undercover reporter expressed worries that American authorities might seize on details of a dirty campaign, Nix said the US had no jurisdiction over Cambridge Analytica, even though the company is American and is registered in Delaware. “I’m absolutely convinced that they have no jurisdiction,” he told the purported client. “So if US authorities came asking for information, they would simply refuse to collaborate. “We’ll say: none of your business.” Turnbull added. “We don’t talk about our clients.” Speaking to Channel 4 News before seeing the undercover film, Hillary Clinton said: “There was a new kind of campaign that was being run on the other side, that nobody had ever faced before. Because it wasn’t just all about me. It was about how to suppress voters who were inclined to vote for me … when you have a massive propaganda effort to prevent people from thinking straight, because they’re being flooded with false information.” In the report, Nix also implied that it was possible to mislead authorities by omission, discussing his appearance in front of the House intelligence committee, for its inquiry into possible Russian election meddling. The Republicans only asked three questions, which took five minutes, he told the reporter. And while the Democrats spent two hours questioning him, he claimed they were so far out of their depths that he didn’t mind responding. “We have no secrets. They’re politicians, they’re not technical. They don’t understand how it works,” he said, when asked about whether he was forced to testify. He went on to describe how political candidates are manipulated. “They don’t understand because the candidate never, is never involved. He’s told what to do by the campaign team.” The reporter asks if that means the candidate is just a puppet, and Nix replies simply: “Always.” In another exchange, Tayler describes an apparently planned division of spending on the campaign trail, with the candidate organising “positive” messages, with negative attack ads left to the super Pacs, which may engage in unlimited political spending independently of the campaigns. “As part of it, sometimes you have to separate it from the political campaign itself ... campaigns are normally subject to limits about how much money they can raise. Whereas outside groups can raise an unlimited amount.” “So the campaign will use their finite resources for things like persuasion and mobilisation and then they leave the ‘air war’ they call it, like the negative attack ads to other affiliated groups.” Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video This raises questions over whether Cambridge Analytica blurred the boundaries between official campaign groups, which have spending limits, and unaffiliated political action groups or super Pacs. The latter can spend as much as they want but must not coordinate with the candidate they support. The Campaign Legal Center has accused Cambridge Analytica over allegations of illegal coordination of this nature. It has filed evidence with the FEC alleging that the super Pac Make America Number 1 made illegal contributions to Trump’s campaign, “engaging in unlawful coordinated spending by using the common vendor Cambridge Analytica”. Cambridge Analytica said it had never claimed to have won the election for Donald Trump. “This is patently absurd. We are proud of the work we did on that campaign, and have spoken in many public forums about what we consider to be our contribution to the campaign.” It said there was no evidence of coordination between the Make America Number 1 super Pac and the Trump campaign. The company said it was not under investigation. It has accused the Channel 4 News undercover investigation of grossly misrepresenting how the company conducts its business. However, speaking to the BBC on Monday, Nix said he had “huge amounts of regret that we undertook this meeting and spoke with a certain amount of hyperbole”. On Tuesday the website Politico reported that Trump’s 2020 campaign was moving to distance itself from Cambridge Analytica. A campaign official told Politico it had no existing contracts with the firm and no plans to hire it in the future. 


[w792]  		Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse       Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse Any good will the company earned by talking about the problem first was quickly undone when reporters revealed Facebook's behind-the-scenes legal manoeuvring Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse  Facebook Inc. tried to get ahead of its latest media firestorm. Instead, it helped create one. The company knew ahead of time that on Saturday, the New York Times and The Guardian’s Observer would issue bombshell reports that the data firm that helped Donald Trump win the presidency had accessed and retained information on 50 million Facebook users without their permission. Facebook did two things to protect itself: it sent letters to the media firms laying out its legal case for why this data leak didn’t constitute a “breach.” And then it scooped the reports using their information, with a Friday blog post on why it was suspending the ad firm, Cambridge Analytica, from its site. Both moves backfired. Bad day for tech titans: Zuckerberg’s fortune alone drops $4.9B Canada’s privacy watchdog asks Facebook for info on data misuse that raises ‘serious concerns’ On Friday, Facebook said it “received reports” that Cambridge Analytica hadn’t deleted the user data, and that it needed to suspend the firm. The statement gave the impression that Facebook had looked into the matter. In fact, the company’s decisions were stemming from information in the news reports set to publish the next day, and it had not independently verified those reports, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. By trying to look proactive, Facebook ended up adding weight to the news. Most of its executives haven't done a real interview in ages, let alone answer deep questions On Saturday, any good will the company earned by talking about the problem first was quickly undone when reporters revealed Facebook’s behind-the-scenes legal manoeuvring. “Yesterday Facebook threatened to sue us. Today we publish this,” Carole Cadwalladr, the Observer reporter, wrote as she linked her story to Twitter, in a post shared almost 15,000 times. The Guardian said it had nothing to add to her statement. The Times confirmed that it too received a letter, but said it didn’t consider the correspondence a legal threat. Front-running the stories along with the letters to newsrooms are but two of several ways Facebook failed to contain fallout from the Cambridge Analytica revelations. Silence on the part of Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg didn’t help. Nor did a report late Monday in the New York Times that Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos is leaving after clashing with other executives, including Sandberg, over how Facebook handled Russian disinformation campaigns. Facebook said Stamos is still at the company, but didn’t outright deny that he plans to leave. “Most of its executives haven’t done a real interview in ages, let alone answer deep questions,” Zeynep Tufecki, an associate professor at the University of North Carolina who specializes in social networks and democracy, wrote in a post on Twitter. In a sign of investor dismay, Facebook shares tumbled 6.8 per cent on Monday, the biggest decline since March 2014. As the stock fell and criticism from lawmakers poured in from the U.S. and Britain, the company worked to make it clear that it didn’t actually have enough information, on its own, to react to Saturday’s news reports in a stronger way.   Facebook put out another blog post, saying that Cambridge Analytica and the researcher who provided them the data, Aleksandr Kogan, had agreed to a digital forensics audit to prove they deleted it. Facebook said the one person who didn’t agree to the audit was Christopher Wylie, the former Cambridge Analytica contractor who spoke to the newspapers about the data leak. With the post, Facebook aimed to stir more skepticism around Wylie’s information, according to a person familiar with the matter. That didn’t resolve things quickly either. The auditors were already on site at Cambridge Analytica’s London office Monday when they had to pause their work. The U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation. The Cambridge Analytica saga is the latest in a series of bungled Facebook responses, often reactionary and sometimes unintentionally stirring public outrage instead of resolving concerns. The company’s interaction with the public tends to start with a carefully crafted blog post, and then evolve into a much more improvised Twitter-based conversation with lower-level executives who defend the social network and explain its decisions. It doesn’t always go well. Earlier this year, when the U.S. government indicted 13 Russians who used Facebook to manipulate voters, a Facebook advertising executive took to Twitter to clarify that overall, the Russian ads were primarily used to divide Americans, not influence the election. His comments went viral after President Donald Trump used them to back up attacks on the “fake news media.” In 2017, Facebook made its disclosures on Russia’s activities in a slow drip, each time illustrating a bigger problem. An April white paper on “information operations,” for example, didn’t name the country. The company that October said 10 million users saw Russia’s ads. Later that month, Facebook said 126 million people saw Russia’s posts in general. The company upped the number to 150 million during Congressional interrogation, when a senator asked if Facebook could include Instagram, the photo-sharing app it owns, in the count. Stamos, who has favoured more forthright disclosure, was frequently outvoted, according to the New York Times. He’s planning to leave the company in August, the newspaper reported. On Twitter, he later said he’s still fully engaged with his work at Facebook, without answering questions about his plans. But that would make him the most high-profile exit since Facebook’s election-related troubles began. Meanwhile, higher ranking executives remain quiet. Zuckerberg and Sandberg, who in past years would post frequently about the issues of the day, have shied away from reacting to the most controversial news. Lawmakers have now called out Zuckerberg by name in both the U.S. and the U.K. Zuckerberg and Sandberg plan to remain quiet on the Cambridge Analytica situation until the company completes its internal review of what happened, according to a person familiar with the matter. Until they do, questions about Facebook’s ability to cope with the Cambridge Analytica crisis will undoubtedly persist. 

[w793]  

[w794]  		Facebook being investigated by U.S. FTC over misuse of personal data, source says       Facebook being investigated by U.S. FTC over misuse of personal data, source says Facebook could be on the hook for thousands of dollars a day in fines if the FTC finds the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement over privacy settings . Facebook Inc. is under investigation by a U.S. privacy watchdog over the use of personal data of 50 million users by a data analytics firm to help elect President Donald Trump. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is probing whether Facebook violated terms of a 2011 consent decree following the revelations that user data had been transferred to Cambridge Analytica without their knowledge, according to a person familiar with the matter. Under the 2011 settlement, Facebook agreed to get user consent for certain changes to privacy settings as part of a settlement of federal charges that it deceived consumers and forced them to share more personal information than they intended. That complaint arose after the company changed some user settings without notifying its customers, according to an FTC statement at the time. Canada’s privacy watchdog asks Facebook for info on data misuse that raises ‘serious concerns’ Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse Mark Zuckerberg lost a massive $4.9 billion yesterday, and other tech titans didn’t fare much better Spokesmen for Facebook and the FTC didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine the company thousands of dollars a day per violation. Facebook declined in New York trading, falling 3.2 per cent to US$167 as of 9:31 a.m. in New York. That follows a drop of 6.8 per cent Monday. The Facebook revelations have also prompted bipartisan, transatlantic concern. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada said Monday it wants Facebook to reveal whether any Canadians had personal information compromised. The U.S. Senate Commerce Committee announced Monday evening it would like a briefing on “the use and sharing of individual Facebook user data.” The chairman of a U.K. parliamentary committee announced Tuesday he was requesting that Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, who has remained silent for days, appear before the panel to supplement prior testimony by the company’s executives. Republican lawmakers, who normally resist regulation of private business, started coming down on the company as early as Sunday, with Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona calling the privacy violations “significant” and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida saying he was “disturbed” by many things about the company. 

[w795]    ‘A failure of leadership’: Zuckerberg slammed amid Facebook scandal ,   Facebook's data scandal having a corrosive effect on its brand: Expert    Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg shouldn’t stay quiet on the data scandal that has engulfed his company if he wants to save face, according to a public relations expert. “I think that they really have a mess on their hands – a PR nightmare,” Bob Pickard, principal at Signal Leadership Communication, told BNN in an interview Tuesday. “And they really have to come out and talk about what it is that they’re going to do to deal with the situation at the senior level and to regain the trust of consumers.” Shares of Facebook ( ) fell sharply Monday and extended those losses Tuesday following reports that the U.K. data firm Cambridge Analytica gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users to support Donald Trump’s U.S. presidential election campaign. The reports triggered pushback from privacy regulators in the U.S. and Europe. Zuckerberg has yet to speak out on the scandal, and Bloomberg is reporting both he and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg plan to keep a low profile until the company completes its internal review. “That vacuum is being filled with critics and naysayers who are questioning the company’s competence and questioning its character under these circumstances,” Pickard said.    READ MORE: FACEBOOK DATA SCANDAL How Facebook made its Cambridge Analytica data crisis even worse U.K. investigating Facebook's response to alleged data breach Facebook security chief Alex Stamos to depart, source says The social network company tried to get ahead of the media firestorm, Bloomberg reported, with a blog post Friday explaining why it was suspending Cambridge Analytica from its site. It also reportedly sent letters to major media outlets ahead of time explaining why the situation didn’t constitute as a breach. But Pickard said Facebook’s preemptive measures aren’t enough. “It kind of calls into question how sincere is their proactive communication, when they’re basically only saying stuff when they know the press is going to break it anyway on their behalf,” he said.    “Facebook, whatever they’ve done, it’s being lost now to this cataract of disaster that is coming from all of these different critics,” Pickard added. “They aren’t saying anything. It’s like a failure of leadership communication right now.”  'Zuckerberg needs to come clean': Bullseye Brief's Johnson Adam Johnson, founder and author of investment newsletter Bullseye Brief, gives his perspective on Facebook's data scandal and on Oracle posting mixed earnings results from its latest quarter. The company shed nearly US$40 billion of its market capitalization Monday and Zuckerberg saw his net worth fall by about US$5 billion. “There’s clearly a real brand hit,” said SocialFlow CEO Jim Anderson in an interview with BNN Tuesday. “Just look at all the coverage and the level of emotion that people have. I think the real open question is how much staying power there’ll be.” Pickard said the road ahead for Facebook will have “many different twists and turns.” “It’s hard to know where this is going to lead them,” he said. “There’s so much happening right now that people just reach a general, simple conclusion: this is a good company, or this is a bad company. I think they’re feeling that it’s the latter.”  


[w796] Facebook and Cambridge Analytica face legal questions  The National news Facebook and Cambridge Analytica face legal questions Facebook and data company Cambridge Analytica are facing legal questions — in the U.K., a warrant has been ordered to search Cambridge Analytica's London headquarters, and on this side of the Atlantic, U.S. congressional staff are scheduled to be briefed by Facebook. Its the latest fallout after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica targeted millions of Americans during the election campaign without their knowledge based on psychological profiles and surveys using data obtained from Facebook 


[w797] Facebook data whistleblower oversaw pilot project for Liberals in 2016, source says   


[w798]  	 DATA FIRM’S CEO SUSPENDED The head of the Trump-affiliated data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica is suspended, while government authorities bear down on both the firm and Facebook over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users to manipulate elections. 


[w799] Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak  Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak Canada's privacy watchdog has launched an investigation into Facebook after a series of media reports alleged that private online information belonging to millions of Americans was obtained by a company working on U.S. President Donald Trump's election campaign. 'If true, the allegations raise a major challenge for privacy rights,' says Daniel Therrien CBC News Posted: Mar 20, 2018 7:05 PM ET | Last Updated: March 21 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO pending probe in Facebook data scandal Facebook's Zuckerberg keeps low profile as Cambridge Analytica scandal grows U.K. committee wants to hear Facebook's Zuckerberg on fake news, data supplied to Trump campaign Facebook shares fall as EU, U.S. urge probes of data practices Facebook suspends data analytics firm that worked for Trump campaign Canadian whistleblower on why he exposed 'problematic' Facebook data misuse by Trump consulting firm Who is Christopher Wylie? How a B.C. high school dropout set out on path to political data harvesting 


[w801]  Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada organization 			Privacy Commissioner launches Facebook investigation 																																					   News provided by Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada  The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada has opened an investigation related to recent media reports regarding alleged unauthorized access and use of Facebook user profiles. "We have received a complaint against Facebook in relation to allegations involving Cambridge Analytica and have therefore opened a formal investigation," says Commissioner Daniel Therrien. "The first step will be to confirm with the company whether the personal information of Facebook users in Canada was affected."   The investigation will examine Facebook's compliance with Canada's federal private sector privacy law, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA). "The allegations we've seen in media reports raise extremely important privacy questions. The digital world, and social media in particular, have become entrenched in our daily lives and people want their rights to be respected." The UK Information Commissioner's Office has an ongoing related investigation. "We will remain in contact with the UK office and will work with other data protection authorities as appropriate. Ultimately, our goal is to ensure that the privacy rights of Canadian Facebook users are protected," says Commissioner Therrien. Due to confidentiality provisions under PIPEDA, no further details regarding the investigation are available at this time. Generally speaking, PIPEDA requires meaningful and informed consent for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information in the course of commercial activities. Under the law, companies are also accountable for how they manage and safeguard the personal information in their care and must ensure that it is not disclosed inappropriately. Neither PIPEDA nor Canada's federal public sector privacy law, the Privacy Act , applies to political parties. The Commissioner has asked Parliament to consider regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information by political parties. In fact, both federal privacy laws are in urgent need of reform and the Commissioner has called on the government to address the shortcomings in Canada's privacy regime. "If true, the allegations raise a major challenge for privacy rights. We have recommended strengthening Canada's private sector law in order to help strengthen consumer trust. I welcome the support of a Parliamentary committee that recently reviewed PIPEDA ," says Commissioner Therrien. About the Privacy Commissioner of Canada The Privacy Commissioner of Canada is mandated by Parliament to act as an ombudsman and guardian of privacy in Canada. The Commissioner enforces two laws for the protection of personal information: the Privacy Act , which applies to the federal public sector; and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act , Canada's federal private sector privacy law. Please note that we are not in a position to offer interviews at this time due to confidentiality provisions under federal privacy law. 

[w802] Political firm laid out a list of dirty tricks in broadcast 


[w804] 

[w805]   Facebook Haunted by Its Handling of 2016 Election Meddling     Days after the 2016 election, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg dismissed the idea that fake news shared on the social-media site influenced the election, calling it a “pretty crazy idea.” Facebook didn’t publicly acknowledge that its platform might have played a role in Russia’s election meddling until April 2017, when a company release noted that its “data does not contradict” a January 2017 report by the U.S. director of National Intelligence. As indicated in a footnote, that’s a reference to the U.S. intelligence agencies’ conclusion that Russia carried out a vast cybercampaign in an effort to help elect Donald Trump. Now Facebook is facing an intensifying backlash over its handling of various elements of the 2016 campaign. The latest crisis came on Monday night, when the New York Times and other outlets reported that Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer, is set to leave the company by August. Stamos is widely respected within the cybersecurity community, but that’s not the sole reason that his expected departure is such a blow. It’s also exposed a debate among Facebook executives over how to address attempts to misuse the platform, and how much to disclose following security breaches. According to the Times , there’s been ongoing tension within Facebook’s upper ranks between the security team, which tended to push for more public disclosures on misuse by Russia and other nations, and the legal and policy teams, which prioritized protecting the company’s business interests. Stamos was said to be a key advocate for publicizing Russia’s interference and working to combat it, even before the election. Per the Times : Mr. Stamos first put together a group of engineers to scour Facebook for Russian activity in June 2016, the month the Democratic National Committee announced it had been attacked by Russian hackers, the current and former employees said. By November 2016, the team had uncovered evidence that Russian operatives had aggressively pushed DNC leaks and propaganda on Facebook … In the ensuing months, Facebook’s security team found more Russian disinformation and propaganda on its site, according to the current and former employees. By the spring of 2017, deciding how much Russian interference to disclose publicly became a major source of contention within the company. In early 2017, Stamos penned a memo describing Russia’s activities on the site, but direct references to Russia were reportedly scrubbed from the report, resulting in the vague aforementioned document published in April 2017. However, efforts to avoid publicly discussing Russia’s activities didn’t make the controversy go away. Months after media reports shed more light on Russia’s use of fake ads and user accounts, in September 2017 the company said it had uncovered a vast Russian campaign to spread propaganda on the site: In reviewing the ads buys, we have found approximately $100,000 in ad spending from June of 2015 to May of 2017 — associated with roughly 3,000 ads — that was connected to about 470 inauthentic accounts and Pages in violation of our policies. Our analysis suggests these accounts and Pages were affiliated with one another and likely operated out of Russia. In a statement on Facebook Live at the time, Zuckerberg said the company was cooperating with investigators, and taking steps to make political advertising more transparent. When representatives from Facebook, as well as several other top tech companies, testified before Congress in the fall, lawmakers still criticized them for being slow to address the problem. Stamos pushed back against reports of his imminent departure on Monday night, tweeting that while his role at the company has changed, “I’m still fully engaged with my work at Facebook.” He also denied that fellow executives hampered his efforts to investigate Russian election meddling (though he did not say whether there was resistance to disclosing those findings). To be clear, the security team has never been prevented or discouraged from investigating any Russian activity by any executives. https://t.co/At2KSn8oXE — Alex Stamos (@alexstamos) March 20, 2018 Even if Stamos stays put, Facebook has plenty of other crises to deal with. Over the weekend Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica, which ran data operations for Trump’s 2016 campaign, ahead of media exposés on how it harvested data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles. Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American academic working with Cambridge Analytica, allegedly violated Facebook’s terms of use by saying the data would be used for academic purposes, not political purposes. Aided by the Trump connection, the stories drew attention to Facebook’s loose rules for accessing users’ data. Kogan’s initial collection was no different from what thousands of developers — from Farmville to Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign — have done legitimately. (The rules have been tightened since 2015, and allowing third-party apps to access your information no longer gives them access to all your friends’ data as well.) Now lawmakers in the U.S. and Europe are calling for probes into how Facebook and other social-media companies protect users’ data from third-party companies. Several members of Congress demanded that Zuckerberg testify on Capitol Hill about how Cambridge Analytica obtained its data. Related Stories   “Facebook, Google, and Twitter have amassed unprecedented amounts of personal data and use this data when selling advertising, including political advertisements,” Senators Amy Klobuchar and John Kennedy wrote in a letter to Senator Chuck Grassley, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “The lack of oversight on how data is stored and how political advertisements are sold raises concerns about the integrity of American elections as well as privacy rights.” Grassley’s spokesperson said he has not decided whether to hold a hearing, but the controversies are already having an impact on Facebook. Its stock fell 6.8 percent on Monday, its worst single-day drop in four years. The company lost more than $36 billion in market value, and Zuckerberg personally lost $6.06 billion. Facebook can certainly survive the loss of a top security chief and another grilling from lawmakers, but it’s a company built on trust. What happens if the ongoing revelations about Facebook’s failure to protect users from Russian disinformation and the inappropriate use of their profile data make people less interested in handing over their personal information? 


[w806]  FACEBOOK EFFECT: Facebook stocks dropped another 2.6 percent on Tuesday following reports that the Federal Trade Commission will open investigations on its handling of user data following the revelations that Cambridge Analytica harvested private data of its 50 million users. Its shares have fallen 9 percent this week, its worst performance in two years. Other social media companies in the U.S. also finished the day lower on concerns that the government might enact new laws affecting their businesses. In Asia, reactions were relatively muted. Tencent Holdings, which operates China's largest social media app WeChat and is expected to announce earnings later in the day, jumped 1.6 percent. South Korea's Naver Corp., parent of Line messenger app, added 0.1 percent. 


[w807]   UK MPs ask Facebook’s Zuckerberg to testify on data row A British parliamentary committee on Tuesday asks Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg to appear before it to explain in person claims that millions of users’ data were harvested for political campaigns. Damian Collins, chairman of the House of Commons digital, culture, media and sport committee, writes to Zuckerberg asking for his own account of “this catastrophic failure of process.” The request is made as part of the committee’s ongoing investigation into fake news, which saw its members last month visit Washington for hearings with officials from Facebook and Twitter. But it follows allegations that data from up to 50 million Facebook users were harvested by a British company, Cambridge Analytica, for use in the election campaign of US President Donald Trump in 2016. “Following material published in the UK Guardian and The New York Times over the past few days, the committee would like to request that you appear before us to give oral evidence,” Collins writes. Collins sets Zuckerberg a deadline of March 26 to reply. 


[w808]   Former officials have been worried that Facebook's data sharing with Cambridge Analytica may have violated the FTC consent decree , and it looks like existing officials share their concern. Bloomberg sources have claimed that the FTC is probing Facebook to determine whether the social network broke the decree by letting Cambridge Analytica obtain users' data without their express permission. If it did, the FTC could call for fines up to $40,000 per person, although that's unlikely when there are roughly 50 million affected users. continued contents The FTC hasn't commented on the apparent leak, although any probe would likely take a significant amount of time for the agency to reach a definitive conclusion. If the trade regulator does get involved, it'll join a slew of state-level, UK and European Union investigations. Members of Congress want answers , too. Facebook is scrambling to deal with the scandal on its own terms, but it may be too late for the company to avoid serious legal repercussions -- especially when it reportedly knew about the data sharing in 2015. 


[w809]  'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine      'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine    'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine  i‘It has been painful watching. Because I know that they could have prevented it.’ Hundreds of millions of Facebook users are likely to have had their private information harvested by companies that exploited the same terms as the firm that collected data and passed it on to Cambridge Analytica, according to a new whistleblower. Sandy Parakilas, the platform operations manager at Facebook responsible for policing data breaches by third-party software developers between 2011 and 2012, told the Guardian he warned senior executives at the company that its lax approach to data protection risked a major breach. Where's Zuck? Facebook CEO silent as data harvesting scandal unfolds Read more “My concerns were that all of the data that left Facebook servers to developers could not be monitored by Facebook, so we had no idea what developers were doing with the data,” he said. Parakilas said Facebook had terms of service and settings that “people didn’t read or understand” and the company did not use its enforcement mechanisms, including audits of external developers, to ensure data was not being misused. Parakilas, whose job was to investigate data breaches by developers similar to the one later suspected of Global Science Research, which harvested tens of millions of Facebook profiles and provided the data to Cambridge Analytica, said the slew of recent disclosures had left him disappointed with his superiors for not heeding his warnings. “It has been painful watching,” he said, “because I know that they could have prevented it.” Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer Asked what kind of control Facebook had over the data given to outside developers, he replied: “Zero. Absolutely none. Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on.” Parakilas said he “always assumed there was something of a black market” for Facebook data that had been passed to external developers. However, he said that when he told other executives the company should proactively “audit developers directly and see what’s going on with the data” he was discouraged from the approach. He said one Facebook executive advised him against looking too deeply at how the data was being used, warning him: “Do you really want to see what you’ll find?” Parakilas said he interpreted the comment to mean that “Facebook was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening”. He added: “They felt that it was better not to know. I found that utterly shocking and horrifying.” Parakilas first went public with his concerns about privacy at Facebook four months ago, but his direct experience policing Facebook data given to third parties throws new light on revelations over how such data was obtained by Cambridge Analytica. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment on the information supplied by Parakilas, but directed the Guardian to a November 2017 blogpost in which the company defended its data sharing practices, which it said had “significantly improved” over the last five years. “While it’s fair to criticise how we enforced our developer policies more than five years ago, it’s untrue to suggest we didn’t or don’t care about privacy,” that statement said. “The facts tell a different story.” ‘A majority of Facebook users’ Parakilas, 38, who now works as a product manager for Uber, is particularly critical of Facebook’s previous policy of allowing developers to access the personal data of friends of people who used apps on the platform, without the knowledge or express consent of those friends. That feature, called friends permission, was a boon to outside software developers who, from 2007 onwards, were given permission by Facebook to build quizzes and games – like the widely popular FarmVille – that were hosted on the platform. The apps proliferated on Facebook in the years leading up to the company’s 2012 initial public offering, an era when most users were still accessing the platform via laptops and computers rather than smartphones. Facebook took a 30% cut of payments made through apps, but in return enabled their creators to have access to Facebook user data. Parakilas does not know how many companies sought friends permission data before such access was terminated around mid-2014. However, he said he believes tens or maybe even hundreds of thousands of developers may have done so. It has been painful watching, because I know they could have prevented it Parakilas estimates that “a majority of Facebook users” could have had their data harvested by app developers without their knowledge. The company now has stricter protocols around the degree of access third parties have to data. Parakilas said that when he worked at Facebook it failed to take full advantage of its enforcement mechanisms, such as a clause that enables the social media giant to audit external developers who misuse its data. Legal action against rogue developers or moves to ban them from Facebook were “extremely rare”, he said, adding: “In the time I was there, I didn’t see them conduct a single audit of a developer’s systems.” Facebook announced on Monday that it had hired a digital forensics firm to conduct an audit of Cambridge Analytica. The decision comes more than two years after Facebook was made aware of the reported data breach. During the time he was at Facebook, Parakilas said the company was keen to encourage more developers to build apps for its platform and “one of the main ways to get developers interested in building apps was through offering them access to this data”. Shortly after arriving at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters he was told that any decision to ban an app required the personal approval of the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, although the policy was later relaxed to make it easier to deal with rogue developers. about While the previous policy of giving developers access to Facebook users’ friends’ data was sanctioned in the small print in Facebook’s terms and conditions, and users could block such data sharing by changing their settings, Parakilas said he believed the policy was problematic. “It was well understood in the company that that presented a risk,” he said. “Facebook was giving data of people who had not authorised the app themselves, and was relying on terms of service and settings that people didn’t read or understand.” It was this feature that was exploited by Global Science Research, and the data provided to Cambridge Analytica in 2014. GSR was run by the Cambridge University psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, who built an app that was a personality test for Facebook users. The test automatically downloaded the data of friends of people who took the quiz, ostensibly for academic purposes. Cambridge Analytica has denied knowing the data was obtained improperly, and Kogan maintains he did nothing illegal and had a “close working relationship” with Facebook. While Kogan’s app only attracted around 270,000 users (most of whom were paid to take the quiz), the company was then able to exploit the friends permission feature to quickly amass data pertaining to more than 50 million Facebook users. “Kogan’s app was one of the very last to have access to friend permissions,” Parakilas said, adding that many other similar apps had been harvesting similar quantities of data for years for commercial purposes. Academic research from 2010, based on an analysis of 1,800 Facebooks apps , concluded that around 11% of third-party developers requested data belonging to friends of users. If those figures were extrapolated, tens of thousands of apps, if not more, were likely to have systematically culled “private and personally identifiable” data belonging to hundreds of millions of users, Parakilas said. The ease with which it was possible for anyone with relatively basic coding skills to create apps and start trawling for data was a particular concern, he added. Parakilas said he was unsure why Facebook stopped allowing developers to access friends data around mid-2014, roughly two years after he left the company. However, he said he believed one reason may have been that Facebook executives were becoming aware that some of the largest apps were acquiring enormous troves of valuable data. He recalled conversations with executives who were nervous about the commercial value of data being passed to other companies. “They were worried that the large app developers were building their own social graphs, meaning they could see all the connections between these people,” he said. “They were worried that they were going to build their own social networks.” ‘They treated it like a PR exercise’ Parakilas said he lobbied internally at Facebook for “a more rigorous approach” to enforcing data protection, but was offered little support. His warnings included a PowerPoint presentation he said he delivered to senior executives in mid-2012 “that included a map of the vulnerabilities for user data on Facebook’s platform”. “I included the protective measures that we had tried to put in place, where we were exposed, and the kinds of bad actors who might do malicious things with the data,” he said. “On the list of bad actors I included foreign state actors and data brokers.” Frustrated at the lack of action, Parakilas left Facebook in late 2012. “I didn’t feel that the company treated my concerns seriously. I didn’t speak out publicly for years out of self-interest, to be frank.” How to protect your Facebook privacy – or delete yourself completely Read more That changed, Parakilas said, when he heard the congressional testimony given by Facebook lawyers to Senate and House investigators in late 2017 about Russia’s attempt to sway the presidential election. “They treated it like a PR exercise,” he said. “They seemed to be entirely focused on limiting their liability and exposure rather than helping the country address a national security issue.” It was at that point that Parakilas decided to go public with his concerns, writing an opinion article in the New York Times that said Facebook could not be trusted to regulate itself. Since then, Parakilas has become an adviser to the Center for Humane Technology , which is run by Tristan Harris, a former Google employee turned whistleblower on the industry. 

[w810]   MPs summon Mark Zuckerberg, saying Facebook misled them  MPs summon Mark Zuckerberg, saying Facebook misled them        Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive and founder of Facebook, was given a deadline of 26 March to respond.  MPs have summoned Mark Zuckerberg to appear before a select committee investigating fake news and accused his company of misleading them at a previous hearing. The Facebook founder has been called to give evidence to the digital, culture, media and sport committee after revelations over the use of its data by the election consultancy Cambridge Analytica . Are you leaving Facebook? Share your concerns on privacy with us Read more The company has also come under the spotlight in the US after an investigation by the Observer, Channel 4 News and the New York Times revealed that 50m user profiles had been accessed and harvested for data. In a letter to Zuckerberg, the committee’s chair, Damian Collins, wrote that Facebook had been repeatedly asked about how companies acquired and held on to user data from its site, and whether data had been taken without users’ consent. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk and have been misleading to the committee,” he wrote. “It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process … Given your commitment at the start of the new year to ‘fixing’ Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you.” The committee said Facebook had failed to provide follow-up evidence after the last hearing and that this week’s revelations had raised new questions for the inquiry. On Wednesday it will take evidence from a former Facebook operations manager, Sandy Parakilas. The letter gave a deadline of 26 March for a response. How the story unfolded  In December 2016, while researching the US presidential election, Carole Cadwalladr came across data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, whose secretive manner and chequered track record belied its bland, academic-sounding name. Her initial investigations uncovered the role of US billionaire Robert Mercer in the US election campaign: his strategic “war” on mainstream media and his political campaign funding, some apparently linked to Brexit. She found the first indications that Cambridge Analytica might have used data processing methods that breached the Data Protection Act. That article prompted Britain’s Electoral Commission and the Information Commissioner’s Office to launch investigations whose remits include Cambridge Analytica’s use of data and its possible links to the EU referendum. These investigations are continuing, as is a wider ICO inquiry into the use of data in politics. While chasing the details and ramifications of complex manipulation of both data and funding law, Cadwalladr came under increasing attacks, both online and professionally, from key players. The Leave.EU campaign tweeted a doctored video that showed her being violently assaulted, and the Russian embassy wrote to the Observer to complain that her reporting was a “textbook example of bad journalism”. But the growing profile of her reports also gave whistleblowers confidence that they could trust her to not only understand their stories, but retell them clearly for a wide audience. Her network of sources and contacts grew to include not only former employees who regretted their work but academics, lawyers and others concerned about the impact on democracy of tactics employed by Cambridge Analytica and associates. Cambridge Analytica is now the subject of special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s probing of the company’s role in Donald Trump’s presidential election campaign. Investigations in the UK remain live. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. A White House spokesman said Donald Trump would welcome investigations into the breach. “The president believes that Americans’ privacy should be protected. You know, if Congress wants to look into the matter or other agencies want to look into the matter, we welcome that,” the deputy press secretary Raj Shah told Fox News. “Without knowing the specifics, it’s difficult to tell whether an individual should testify but we do support the privacy of American citizens.” Representatives of Facebook are expected to brief Senate and White House aides on Wednesday, and the US Federal Trade Commission is reported to be looking at whether it violated an agreement over its use of consumers’ personal data. The agreement was reached in 2011 after previous concerns about Facebook’s handling of privacy issues. The company issued a statement on Tuesday saying it was outraged at the developments. The statement said: “[CEO] Mark [Zuckerberg], [COO] Sheryl [Sandberg] and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue. “The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens.” The company’s stock market stock’s woes continued on Tuesday, as the share price dropped 3.5% to drop to around 17% below last month’s all-time high, The inquiries followed revelations of how data from Facebook was deployed by Cambridge Analytica (CA) without users’ consent, and of boasts by CA to undercover reporters about the role it could play in political campaigns. The UK’s information commissioner has announced her intention to investigate CA, but on Tuesday she was still awaiting a warrant to enter its central London offices. A Huffington Post reporter said he had seen about 10 crates of documents being removed from the building, which is shared with other tenants. The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) said it wasn’t responsible for removing any files. Crates filled with documents have been seen being removed from the same building as Cambridge Analytica's HQ. Their provenance cannot be verified. A delivery person did not answer questions, while a van driver said: "No comment". pic.twitter.com/mBPEYZxmQw March 20, 2018 The commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said she had also demanded that Facebook halt an data audit of CA which had commenced, saying it could prejudice her investigation. Cybersecurity consultants from Stroz Friedberg, who had been engaged by Facebook to do the audit, were at CA’s office in London on Monday evening when the ICO asked them to leave so the authorities could pursue their own investigation. Collins said it was extraordinary that Facebook’s investigators had been in the CA office, and he questioned their motives. How to protect your Facebook privacy – or delete yourself completely Read more “We were told this last night and I don’t think the information commissioner was aware of that at that time,” he told the BBC. “This is a matter for the authorities. Facebook sent in data analysts and lawyers who they appointed; what they intended to do there, who knows? “The concern would have been: were they removing information or evidence which could have been vital to the investigation? It’s right they stood down but it’s astonishing they were there in the first place.” In a statement on Tuesday, CA said it had been in touch with the Information Commissioner’s Office since February 2017, when it had hosted its team in its London office. “Since early last year we have subsequently cooperated with the ICO on multiple lines of inquiry, including most recently on the Facebook data and derivatives that we received from GSR, the research company that we engaged in good faith to legally supply data for research. “On this point we have offered to share with the ICO all the information that it asked for and for the ICO to attend our office voluntarily, subject to our agreeing the scope of the inspection.” 


[w811]  Facebook is having a really bad week . And it just got even worse for CEO Mark Zuckerberg. The British House of Commons has officially sent Zuck a letter asking him to come to London and testify about how he plans to “fix” Facebook. Best of luck with that, mate. The letter, which was just published to Twitter by technology reporters in the UK, explains that the government committee overseeing digital privacy had already heard from Facebook officials, but that those representatives from the social media company had been “misleading.” The UK now wants a high-level executive, preferably Zuckerberg himself, to go to London and testify about the “catastrophic failure” of Facebook’s handling of private user information. The letter reads: Dear Mr Zuckerberg Request for oral evidence Following material published in the UK Guardian and the New York Times over the past few days, the Committee would like to request that you appear before us to give oral evidence. As I said in my statement, the Committee has repeatedly asked Facebook about how companies acquire and hold on to user data from their site, and in particular about whether data had been taken without their consent. Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk, and have been misleading to the Committee. It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process. There is a strong public interest test regarding user protection. Accordingly we are sure you will understand the need for a representative from right at the top of the oganisation to address concerns. Given your committment at the start of the New Year to “fixing” Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you. We would like to receive your response by Monday 26 March. Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the letter. Update, 1:09pm: Facebook just sent us this statement from Paul Grewal, VP and Deputy General Counsel: We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information. Advertisement The House of Commons will already be hearing from a former Facebook employee as early as tomorrow. Sandy Parakilas worked on the security team at the social media company and told the Guardian in an article published today that he tried to warn Facebook about the potential for data breaches. Parakilas paints a dark picture of an information gathering free-for-all by incredibly shady characters. “Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on,” Parakilas told the Guardian . Facebook has come under increased scrutiny in the past few days after it was revealed that Cambridge Analytica used the data of over 50 million Facebook users to exploit their fears and launch a sophisticated propaganda campaign on behalf of Donald Trump’s team. Advertisement And to make things even worse for Facebook, it also came to light just yesterday that Cambridge Analytica engages in some pretty dirty business practices. Britain’s Channel Four ran a 20-minute documentary with undercover footage of the company’s CEO admitting that the company orchestrates bribes of politicians with the explicit purpose of filming those encounters and releasing the footage online. The company’s CEO, Alexander Nix, also admits to bringing sex workers from Ukraine into various countries in order to entice government officials with sex. Those encounters are also filmed and used to discredit candidates around the world, Nix says in the video. And if that wasn’t enough, the rumor mill is now swirling with reports that Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer, is resigning over disagreements with other top executives at the media company. Specifically, Stamos is reportedly upset that Facebook isn’t being more upfront about the ways its platform was used to manipulate American voters during the 2016 election. Advertisement But not so fast, says Stamos. He swears he’s not going anywhere. Or, at least, that’s what he’s kind of implying. Stamos, while not exactly denying the fact that he might be leaving in the summer , says that he’s “fully engaged” at Facebook. He does admit that his role at the company has shifted. The New York Times reports that Stamos wanted to quit but was “persuaded to stay” until August. Top leadership at Facebook apparently thought it would look bad to have Stamos jump ship while the ship was on fire. Which isn’t altogether wrong. Facebook’s stock price plummeted yesterday on news that the company is imploding. And Facebook plans to hold a company-wide meeting today to discuss the shitshow. But we’ll see if it can pull out of this nosedive. Advertisement With Zuck himself totally silent, it should be interesting to see how he responds to a request to testify in the UK. So far, the US hasn’t formally asked top social media executives to testify, though that could be changing. Democratic Senator Mark Warner tweeted that he’d like to see Zuck and other CEOs testify in front of Congress. With the shit truly hitting the fan, the days of hiding behind lawyers on Capitol Hill may be over for people like Mark Zuckerberg. 


[w812]   Cambridge Analytica may be guilty of hype. But data mining poisons our politics  Cambridge Analytica caught in undercover sting boasting about entrapping politicians - video It’s exactly the sort of conversation about politics that one would hope did not exist. Two suits, in a swanky restaurant, blithely boasting about exploiting fears buried so deep inside our subconscious that most of us don’t even know we have them; claiming that, for the right price, they can creep invisibly into your head. Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Read more Channel 4’s sting, which showed executives at the digital marketing firm Cambridge Analytica telling undercover reporters what on earth it is they actually do, was just the final piece of this particular jigsaw. My indefatigable Observer colleague Carole Cadwalladr put in the hard yards, over months of investigating the firm that boasts of using a combination of data and behavioural science to laser-target voters and thus help put Donald Trump in the White House . But until now it’s been difficult for many people to visualise how the unauthorised use of our personal data, or the use of social media profiles to manipulate our votes, looks in practice. It sounds bad, obviously. We clearly should care. But it’s all so complicated, and life is busy. The risks of letting tech giants plough through our holiday snaps seem abstract and remote compared with the instant gratification of social media likes and shares and gossip. Well, it’s not so remote now. Facebook had $36bn wiped off its shares on Monday following Cadwalladr’s revelation that personal data from 50 million American Facebook users, obtained by an academic using privileged access granted for research purposes, was then passed on to Cambridge Analytica. And now we know what sort of hands it ended up in. When approached by undercover reporters, posing as wealthy clients seeking to get chosen politicians elected in Sri Lanka, Cambridge Analytica executives suggested all sorts of dubious miracles might be possible. Maybe a rival could be made a financial offer he couldn’t refuse, with the resulting incriminating film posted online. Or maybe some beautiful women could be sent to his house. But arguably more chilling was a conversation about just how deep its psychological profiling goes. Christopher Wylie , the whistleblower Cadwalladr worked with, has said the company used data harvested from prospective voters to “build models to exploit what we knew about them, and target their inner demons”. On camera we saw what that might mean: talk of operating subliminally, exploiting fears where “you didn’t know that was a fear until you saw something that just evoked that reaction”. Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, one of those caught on camera, now insists his company was indulging in “a certain amount of hyperbole” – either exaggerating to impress the client, or perhaps even quietly probing their intentions. Like lobbyists, his company seems to spend half its time telling clients of its power to influence elections and the other half telling journalists those powers are wildly overstated. Data mining is a fast-growing business operating largely unseen on the fringe of politics But at best, his company looks guilty of hype, and at worst, the months of legal threats and denials over Cadwalladr’s stories – not to mention the online abuse she got from people such as Arron Banks of the unofficial pro-Brexit campaign Leave.EU, said to have consulted Cambridge Analytica – stink. None of this means Britain would have voted remain or Hillary Clinton would be president if it hadn’t been for these pesky kids, just as “corporate lobbying” can’t explain every poor government decision. Voters’ anger was real, and this scandal doesn’t absolve us from asking the hard questions about why so many responded to extreme messages. Since Cambridge Analytica’s business model is arguably just a supercharged version of something political parties have done for years – identifying potential supporters, compiling detailed pictures of what makes them tick, then tailor-making messages to different groups depending on what they want to hear – it may also turn out that all sides have been busily scraping data behind our backs. But this feels like a tipping point. Britain’s information commissioner has a warrant to search servers. The Commons select committee inquiry into fake news will recall Nix, questioning whether he “deliberately misled” them in recent testimony on the use of the Facebook data, and seek fresh evidence from Facebook. The latter’s falling share price meanwhile reflects not just this scandal but a string of them, including its role in inadvertently spreading fake news. There is a growing sense that even if users don’t take fright, regulators are losing patience. And so they should. Like lobbying back in the days of cash-for-questions, data mining is a fast-growing business operating largely unseen on the fringe of politics, and while it can be used to respectable ends, it’s vulnerable to abuse. It clearly has the capacity to undermine our democratic process, even if it hasn’t done so yet. We should act before it’s too late.      

[w813]  

[w814] Facebook Faces Growing Pressure Over Data and Privacy Inquiries  Federal regulators and state prosecutors are opening investigations into Facebook. Politicians in the United States and Europe are calling for its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to testify before them. Investors have cut the value of the social networking giant by about $50 billion in the past two days. They are all focused on the same thing: whether Facebook mishandled users’ data. Facebook has built its highly profitable social network off its users, selling advertisements based on their ages, interests and other details. But the scrutiny over the company’s vast trove of personal data — following a report that a political consulting firm had improperly obtained information of 50 million users — is taking direct aim at that lucrative formula. “Investors are reacting to fears of regulation and the consequences of regulation,” said Brian Wieser, a senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group. “The scale of errors can only lead one to conclude these are systemic problems.” So far, most of the social network’s top executives have been silent. Mr. Zuckerberg, its founder, and Sheryl Sandberg, his top deputy, have not made any public statements in recent days. The pair did not appear at an employee meeting on Tuesday in Menlo Park, Calif., where the company is based. At the meeting, employees asked questions about the continuing internal investigation into the use of Facebook data by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. The firm, which was tied to President Trump’s 2016 campaign, used the data to target messages to voters. The meeting, which included Facebook’s deputy counsel, Paul Grewal, largely focused on the steps that Facebook was taking to ensure its data could no longer be misused by independent researchers, according to Facebook employees in attendance. Mr. Zuckerberg was expected to address employees on Friday, when the company holds an all-hands meeting. The company has faced internal dissent over its broader role in spreading disinformation during the presidential campaign and its response to it. The tensions have prompted the planned departure of Alex Stamos , Facebook’s chief security officer, who plans to leave in August. The pressure on Facebook has been building for years. It started in the European Union, where regulators have taken an aggressive attitude toward Facebook and other American technology giants for their sway over the region’s 500 million people. The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. Europe has approved a new privacy law, which takes effect in May, that will give users of Facebook, Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them. After the 2016 presidential campaign, lawmakers at home joined the chorus of critics, citing the company’s role in Russia’s disinformation efforts. The social network was one of the top tools used by Russians to spread false news, and the company’s executives have struggled to explain what happened and how they would prevent foreign interference in the future. The Cambridge Analytica revelations have forced Facebook to scramble to assuage fresh concerns by regulators and lawmakers. The company is sending its representatives to Capitol Hill and arranging conversations with state attorneys general to try to answer questions about how the firm collected the information of Facebook users. The social networking giant is also facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission, which is looking into whether Facebook violated an agreement with the agency, according to a person with knowledge of the inquiry. The F.T.C. investigation is connected to a settlement the agency reached with Facebook in 2011 after finding that the company had told users that third-party apps on the social media site, like games, would not be allowed to access their data. But the apps, the agency found, were able to obtain almost all personal information about a user. The current investigation has parallels. The information on the 50 million users was harvested in 2014 by an outside researcher, Aleksandr Kogan. Mr. Kogan, a professor at Cambridge University, paid users small sums to take a personality quiz and download an app, which collected private information from their profiles and from those of their friends. Facebook allowed that sort of data collection at the time. Then, Mr. Kogan gave the information to Cambridge Analytica, a firm founded by Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House political adviser, and Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor. Passing the information to a third party violated Facebook’s policies, the company said last week. “There are all sorts of obligations under the consent decree that may not have been honored here,” said David Vladeck, a former director of consumer protection at the F.T.C. The company could face fines of $40,000 a day per violation if the agency finds that Facebook broke the agreement. “We are aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating,” an F.T.C. spokeswoman said in a statement on Tuesday. “We take any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously.” Facebook said it expected to receive questions from the F.T.C. related to potential violations of the 2011 consent decree. “We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information,” Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer, Rob Sherman, said in a statement. “We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the F.T.C. may have.” The F.T.C. inquiry is just one piece of the regulatory backlash. On Tuesday, the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, announced that he was joining the Massachusetts attorney general, Maura Healey, in an investigation into whether Facebook had failed to protect the privacy of users in those states. New Jersey’s attorney general announced a similar investigation. Mr. Schneiderman and Ms. Healey sent a letter to Facebook on Tuesday that demanded records of the communications between the company and Cambridge Analytica. “Consumers have a right to know how their information is used — and companies like Facebook have a fundamental responsibility to protect their users’ personal information,” Mr. Schneiderman said. “Today’s demand letter is the first step in our joint investigation to get to the bottom of what happened.” There have also been growing calls for the top leadership at Facebook to appear before American and British lawmakers to testify about the company and Cambridge Analytica. Senators Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, and John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, have asked the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to hold a hearing. Republican leaders of the Senate Commerce Committee, organized by John Thune of South Dakota, wrote a letter on Monday to Mr. Zuckerberg demanding answers to questions about how the data had been collected and if users were able to control the misuse of data by third parties. “It’s time for Mr. Zuckerberg and the other C.E.O.s to testify before Congress,” Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said on Tuesday. “The American people deserve answers about social media manipulation in the 2016 election.” Facebook staff members were scheduled to brief the office of Mr. Warner, the top Democrat on the Intelligence committee, and the offices of members of other committees, including Commerce, this week. “The possibility that Facebook has either not been transparent with consumers or has not been able to verify that third-party app developers are transparent with consumers is troubling,” Mr. Thune said in his letter. On Tuesday morning, a committee within the British Parliament sent a letter to Mr. Zuckerberg that asked him to appear before the panel to answer questions on the company’s connection to Cambridge Analytica. The president of the European Parliament also requested an appearance by Mr. Zuckerberg. “The committee has repeatedly asked Facebook about how companies acquire and hold on to user data from their site, and in particular about whether data had been taken without their consent,” wrote Damian Collins, chairman of the British committee. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk, and have been misleading to the committee.” 

[w815]  Facebook probed by FTC, to meet with lawmakers  As data misuse scandal grows, Facebook investigated by FTC, meets with lawmakers The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over the possible misuse of data of 50 million users. As data misuse scandal grows, Facebook investigated by FTC, meets with lawmakers The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over the possible misuse of data of 50 million users. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://usat.ly/2prAPck Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs As data misuse scandal grows, Facebook investigated by FTC, meets with lawmakers p402_premium class is utilized by Google Consumer Surveys CLOSE Amid the Cambridge Analytica scandal. The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over potential misuse of the personal information of as many as 50 million Facebook users by Trump-connected data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook is also being investigated by New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman and Massachusetts Attorney General Healey, who said they sent a demand letter Tuesday. And Facebook officials met with U.S. lawmakers Tuesday and are scheduled to meet with them again Wednesday to brief them on Cambridge Analytica. The social media giant said Friday it suspended Cambridge Analytica from operating on its platforms as it investigated whether it failed to delete information it received through an academic researcher. Senate Commerce Committee Chairman John Thune (R-S.D.) and other committee leaders — as well as leaders in the U.K. and Europe  — have asked for answers from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg  after reports in The New York Times and T he Observer of London alleged that the data , which included Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users obtained without their permission, was used to target voters during the 2016 presidential election. "Consumers have a right to know how their information is used — and companies like Facebook have a fundamental responsibility to protect their users’ personal information," Schneiderman, New York's Attorney General, said in a statement. Privacy activists called for the federal watchdog to investigate whether the improper handling of Facebook users' data violated a consent decree with the FTC. A Facebook official familiar with the situation said the FTC is seeking information from Facebook and the company expects to receive a letter from the agency soon. The FTC is looking into whether the incident is a violation of a 2011 consent decree giving privacy protections to Facebook users' data, Bloomberg reported Tuesday, also citing a person familiar with the situation. The agency would not confirm that an investigation was underway. “We are aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating," said an FTC statement sent to USA TODAY. "We take any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously.” Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Today, @MassAGO Healey and I sent a letter to Facebook demanding more information regarding Cambridge Analytica. It is the first step in our joint investigation to get to the bottom of what happened. https://t.co/PHr8HVXtXV pic.twitter.com/zNehe9Wv4D — Eric Schneiderman (@AGSchneiderman) March 20, 2018 Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, known as EPIC, says the Cambridge Analytica incident is a textbook violation of the settlement Facebook reached with the FTC in 2011 which required that Facebook users give permission before their data was shared beyond the privacy limits they set on Facebook. "EPIC and many consumer privacy organizations worked hard to get that order in place. It prohibited precisely what happened. But the FTC failed to enforce the order and we now live with the consequences," Rotenberg said. On Tuesday, EPIC, the Center for Digital Democracy and a coalition of consumer groups sent a letter urging the FTC to investigate a violation of the consent decree that states Facebook must get consumers' permission before changing the way it shares data and before enacting changes that "override their privacy preferences." "The FTC has an obligation to the American public to ensure that companies comply with existing consent orders. It is unconscionable that the FTC allowed this unprecedented disclosure of Americans’ personal data to occur," the letter said. Cambridge Analytics, which provided services to the Trump 2016 presidential campaign, got the user data from Global Science Research, which collected the data from a personality quiz app accessed through Facebook. The data was supposed to destroyed, but was passed on to Cambridge Analytica in violation of Facebook’s rules. But Cambridge Analytica still has most of the data, according to the report in  The New York Times , and 30 million of the profiles had enough information to match users to other records and build profiles of them. "It’s long overdue that lawmakers from both parties stopped giving Facebook and the other commercial digital ad companies a free 'collect all our data' pass with our personal information," said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a longtime critic of Facebook. Concerns about the situation led to a continued decline in Facebook's stock price Tuesday. Facebook ( FB ) shares closed Tuesday down 4% to $168.15. Shares fell nearly 7% on Monday, the stock's worst drop in four years , according to FactSet. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg lost almost $5 billion as the company's market cap fell more than $36 billion to $501.3 billion. 


[w818]   Kathy Sheridan: Hijacking of US electorate has gone under the radar 

[w819] Facebook 'outraged' by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica  Facebook ‘outraged’ by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica   Facebook ‘outraged’ by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica British firm linked to Trump campaign suspends chief executive as lawmakers demand answers from social media giant over 'catastrophic' breach of user data    In this photo taken on March 25, 2015 Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at the F8 summit in San Francisco, California. (AFP Photo/Josh Edelson) Facebook said Tuesday the company was “outraged” after being “deceived” over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to US President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher. 		 “The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” the statement said. 							 									Get The Times of Israel's Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories 								 									Free Sign Up 								 It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams “are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.” Later on Tuesday, Cambridge Analytica suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix after recordings of him emerged boasting about the company’s expansive role Trump’s presidential campaign, claiming it did all its research, analytics as well as digital and television campaigns. In the undercover filming, captured by Britain’s Channel 4 News, Nix outlines the use of a secret self-destructing email system. “There’s no evidence, there’s no paper trail, there’s nothing,” he said of the tool, which deletes emails two hours after they have been read. Nix also slights US representatives on the House Intelligence Committee to whom he gave evidence last year, claiming its Democrats are motivated by “sour grapes” and Republicans asked few questions. “They’re politicians, they’re not technical. They don’t understand how it works,” he was caught on camera telling an undercover reporter. In this March 15, 2013, file photo, a Facebook employee walks past a sign at Facebook headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu) In the recording Nix revealed that Cambridge Analytica employed Israeli intelligence gathering firms to aid their efforts. “We have two projects at the moment, which involve doing deep, deep, depth research on the opposition and providing source… really damaging source material, that we can decide how to deploy in the course of the campaign,” Nix told an undercover reporter posing as a Sri Lankan businessman. “We use some British companies, we use some Israeli companies,” he said. “From Israel, very effective in intelligence gathering.” Announcing Nix’s suspension, Cambridge Analytica’s board said Nix would stand aside immediately pending an investigation into the various allegations. “In the view of the Board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” the company said in a statement. Cambridge Analytica has denied claims it harvested data from up to 50 million Facebook users as part of its work for Trump’s election campaign. But the row has plunged Facebook into a major scandal, facing investigations on both sides of the Atlantic over its use of personal data, while its share price has been hit. A British parliamentary committee called on Zuckerberg Tuesday to personally explain to them what happened with “this catastrophic failure of process.” Committee chairman Damian Collins, who is leading an investigation into fake news, said officials at the firm had “consistently understated” the risk of data being taken from users without consent. Zuckerberg has also been invited to address the European Parliament, its president Antonio Tajani said. “Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy,” he tweeted. The parliament and the European Commission, the 28-nation EU executive, have already called for an urgent investigation into the scandal. US lawmakers have also called on Zuckerberg to appear before Congress, along with the chief executives of Twitter and Google. 


[w820] Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica&apos;s collection of Facebook data, former employee says  Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's early efforts to collect troves of Facebook data to build profiles of American voters, a former employee of the data-science firm said Tuesday.   Former presidential adviser Steve Bannon speaks March 10, 2018, in Lille, France. Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's early efforts to collect troves of Facebook data to build profiles of American voters, a former employee of the data-science firm said Tuesday.   (Sylvain Lefevre / Getty Images) Conservative strategist Steve Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's early efforts to collect troves of Facebook data as part of an ambitious program to build detailed profiles of millions of American voters, a former employee of the data-science firm said Tuesday. The 2014 effort was part of a high-tech form of voter persuasion touted by the company, which under Bannon identified and tested the power of anti-establishment messages that later would emerge as central themes in President Donald Trump 's campaign speeches, according to Chris Wylie, who left the company at the end of that year. Among the messages tested were "drain the swamp" and "deep state," he said. Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Trump's 2016 campaign, is now facing questions about alleged unethical practices, including charges that the firm improperly handled the data of tens of millions of Facebook users. On Tuesday, the company's board announced that it was suspending its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after British television released secret recordings that appeared to show him talking about entrapping political opponents. More than three years before he served as Trump's chief political strategist, Bannon helped launch Cambridge Analytica with the financial backing of the wealthy Mercer family as part of a broader effort to create a populist power base. Earlier this year, the Mercers cut ties with Bannon after he was quoted making incendiary comments about Trump and his family. In an interview Tuesday with The Washington Post at his lawyer's London office, Wylie said that Bannon — while he was a top executive at Cambridge Analytica and head of Breitbart News — was deeply involved in the company's strategy and approved spending nearly $1 million to acquire data, including Facebook profiles, in 2014. "We had to get Bannon to approve everything at this point. Bannon was Alexander Nix's boss," said Wylie, who was Cambridge Analytica's research director. "Alexander Nix didn't have the authority to spend that much money without approval." Bannon, who served on the company's board, did not respond to a request for comment. He served as vice president and secretary of Cambridge Analytica from June 2014 to August 2016, when he became chief executive of Trump's campaign, according to his publicly filed financial disclosure. In 2017, he joined Trump in the White House as his chief strategist.  Late on Friday, Facebook made an unexpected announcement: The data firm Cambridge Analytica, hyped as integral to President Donald Trump 's election, was suspended from the social network for using data collected improperly from Facebook users. It is a complicated issue that many people might have... Bannon received more than $125,000 in consulting fees from Cambridge Analytica in 2016 and owned "membership units" in the company worth between $1 million and $5 million, according to his financial disclosure. Cambridge Analytica did not respond to a request for comment about Bannon's role. It is unclear whether Bannon knew how Cambridge Analytica was obtaining the data, which allegedly was collected through an app that was portrayed as a tool for psychological research but was then transferred to the company. Facebook has said that information was improperly shared and that it requested the deletion of the data in 2015. Cambridge Analytica officials said that they had done so, but Facebook said it received reports several days ago that the data was not deleted. Wylie said that both Bannon and Rebekah Mercer, whose father, Robert Mercer, financed the company, participated in conference calls in 2014 in which plans to collect Facebook data were discussed, although Wylie acknowledged that it was not clear they knew the details of how the collection took place. Bannon "approved the data-collection scheme we were proposing," Wylie said. The Mercers did not respond to a request for comment. The data and analyses that Cambridge Analytica generated in this time provided discoveries that would later form the emotionally charged core of Trump's presidential platform, said Wylie, whose disclosures in news reports over the past several days have rocked both his onetime employer and Facebook. he head of Trump-affiliated data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica has been suspended, while government authorities are bearing down on both the firm and Facebook over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users to manipulate elections. Cambridge's board of directors suspended... "Trump wasn't in our consciousness at that moment; this was well before he became a thing," Wylie said. "He wasn't a client or anything." The year before Trump announced his presidential bid, the data firm already had found a high level of alienation among young, white Americans with a conservative bent. In focus groups arranged to test messages for the 2014 midterms, these voters responded to calls for building a new wall to block the entry of illegal immigrants, to reforms intended the "drain the swamp" of Washington's entrenched political community and to thinly veiled forms of racism toward African-Americans called "race realism," he recounted. The firm also tested views of Russian President Vladimir Putin . "The only foreign thing we tested was Putin," he said. "It turns out, there's a lot of Americans who really like this idea of a really strong authoritarian leader and people were quite defensive in focus groups of Putin's invasion of Crimea." The controversy over Cambridge Analytica's data collection erupted in recent days amid news reports that an app created by a Cambridge University psychologist, Aleksandr Kogan, accessed extensive personal data of 50 million Facebook users. The app, called thisisyourdigitallife, was downloaded by 270,000 users. Facebook's policy, which has since changed, allowed Kogan to also collect data — including names, home towns, religious affiliations and likes — on all of the Facebook "friends" of those users. Kogan shared that data with Cambridge Analytica for its growing database on American voters. Facebook on Friday banned the parent company of Cambridge Analytica, Kogan and Wylie for improperly sharing that data. The Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook to determine whether the social media platform violated a 2011 consent decree governing its privacy policies when it allowed the data collection. And Wylie plans to testify to Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee as part of their investigation of Russian interference in the election, including possible ties to the Trump campaign. Meanwhile, Britain's Channel 4 News aired a video Tuesday in which Nix was shown boasting about his work for Trump. He seemed to highlight his firm's secrecy, at one point stressing the need to set up a special email account that self-destructs all messages so that "there's no evidence, there's no paper trail, there's nothing." A British parliamentary committee on Tuesday summoned Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to answer questions on fake news as authorities step up efforts to determine whether data has been improperly used to influence elections. The request comes amid reports that a U.K.-based company allegedly used Facebook... The company said in a statement that Nix's comments "do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation." Nix could not be reached for comment. Cambridge Analytica was set up as a U.S. affiliate of British-based SCL Group, which had a wide range of governmental clients globally, in addition to its political work. Wylie said that Bannon and Nix first met in 2013, the same year that Wylie — a young data whiz with some political experience in Britain and Canada — was working for SCL Group. Bannon and Wylie met soon after and hit it off in conversations about culture, elections and how to spread ideas using technology. Bannon, Wylie, Nix, Rebekah Mercer and Robert Mercer met in Rebekah Mercer's Manhattan apartment in the fall of 2013, striking a deal in which Robert Mercer would fund the creation of Cambridge Analytica with $10 million, with the hope of shaping the congressional elections a year later, according to Wylie. Robert Mercer, in particular, seemed transfixed by the group's plans to harness and analyze data, he recalled. The Mercers were keen to create a U.S.-based business to avoid bad optics and violating U.S. campaign finance rules, Wylie said. "They wanted to create an American brand," he said. The young company struggled to quickly deliver on its promises, Wylie said. Widely available information from commercial data brokers provided people's names, addresses, shopping habits and more, but failed to distinguish on more fine-grained matters of personality that might affect political views. Cambridge Analytica initially worked for 2016 Republican candidate Sen. Ted Cruz , Texas, who was backed by the Mercers. The Trump campaign had rejected early overtures to hire Cambridge Analytica, and Trump himself said in May 2016 that he "always felt" that the use of voter data was "overrated." After Cruz faded, the Mercers switched their allegiance to Trump and pitched their services to Trump's digital director, Brad Parscale. The company's hiring was approved by Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who was informally helping to manage the campaign with a focus on digital strategy. Kushner said in an interview with Forbes magazine that the campaign "found that Facebook and digital targeting were the most effective ways to reach the audiences. ... We brought in Cambridge Analytica." Kushner said he "built" a data hub for the campaign "which nobody knew about, until towards the end." Kushner's spokesman and lawyer both declined to comment Tuesday. Two weeks before Election Day, Nix told a Post reporter at the company's New York City office that his company could "determine the personality of every single adult in the United States of America." The claim was widely questioned, and the Trump campaign later said that it didn't rely on psychographic data from Cambridge Analytica. Instead, the campaign said that it used a variety of other digital information to identify probable supporters. Parscale said in a Post interview in October 2016 that he had not "opened the hood" on Cambridge Analytica's methodology, and said he got much of his data from the Republican National Committee. Parscale declined to comment Tuesday. He has previously said that the Trump campaign did not use any psychographic data from Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica's parent company, SCL Group, has an ongoing contract with the State Department's Global Engagement Center. The company was paid almost $500,000 to interview people overseas to understand the mindset of Islamist militants as part of an effort to counter their online propaganda and block recruits. Heather Nauert, the acting undersecretary for public diplomacy, said Tuesday that the contract was signed in November 2016, under the Obama administration, and has not expired yet. In public records, the contract is dated in February 2017, and the reason for the discrepancy was not clear. Nauert said that the State Department had signed other contracts with SCL Group in the past. 

[w821]  Facebook employees on Mark Zuckerberg Cambridge Analytica silence  Some Facebook employees are angry that Mark Zuckerberg has ghosted in the middle of this scandal      Facebook held a meeting Tuesday for employees to ask questions about the Cambridge Analytica scandal. But CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg were MIA. Some employees are taking to the anonymous chat app Blind to commiserate and discuss the situation. As the latest news rages about how Facebook was exploited to manipulate voters by a company working for Donald Trump's presidential campaign and for the Brexit vote, frustration is growing within Facebook's employee ranks. Facebook staffers want their CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, to speak up and defend the company. He has been noticeably absent on the issue . He hasn't posted on his own Facebook account. He didn't lead an internal company meeting that was held Tuesday. He has made no statements to the press. Ditto for the company's other famous executive, Sheryl Sandberg, who has also been radio silent on the matter. This firestorm involves a whistle-blower from a company called Cambridge Analytica who said the firm took data from 50 million Facebook users under false pretenses to target voters with ads and misinformation. Facebook says it was duped by the firm, which it said promised to delete the data after Facebook discovered its activities back in 2015. Advertisement Many Facebook employees understand and are on board with the company's defense. Plus they are used to news reports about some scandal or another at the company and believe that the news media can be overly dramatic or mischaracterize things. "Everybody at Facebook in first year gets immunized to stories about Facebook — or they quit," one former Facebook employee told us. "But there are plenty of people irked about this, about Facebook's silence. They want Mark to go on TV." 'Is this how the downfall of Myspace happened?' Employees were told their questions would be answered at an internal meeting, but neither Zuckerberg nor Sandberg participated in that meeting. The meeting was led by a Facebook lawyer, Paul Grewal. Many employees are also engaging in some dark humor about it. In the anonymous employee chat app Blind, one Facebook employee posted a message full of siren and fire emojis, saying, "Those are my thoughts." Another employee called the situation "serious," but a third one joked, "Is this how the downfall of Myspace happened? I'm just trying to figure out how worried I should actually be." Blind makes sure the people using the app are employees by validating their work email addresses. In fact, employees have also been active on Facebook's internal messaging groups, including one called "Wait What? Ask PR." Employees are going there to ask questions about Cambridge Analytica as well as Facebook's role in the 2016 US elections and Russian election interference. "We have a very open culture at Facebook and welcome feedback through all of our internal channels," Vanessa Chan, Facebook's director of communications, told Business Insider. The upshot is, employees want to believe, and do believe, their company's explanation that it is not complicit with any bad actors. But many don't understand why Zuckerberg and Sandberg are ghosts, allowing the world to believe that the people of Facebook are doing terrible things. As one former employee described, "Why are you guys letting us get grilled?" The billionaire cofounder of WhatsApp, which Facebook acquired for $19 billion, just tweeted 'deletefacebook' 

[w822] Steve Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's 2014 mining of Facebook data: report         Steve Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's 2014 mining of Facebook data: report     Former Trump strategist Steve Bannon oversaw the early collection of Facebook user data for Cambridge Analytica in 2014, the Washington Post reported late Tuesday. The 2014 effort apparently tested various anti-establishment messages that later appeared in the Trump camp's lexicon, including "drain the swamp" and "deep state," the Post said. Bannon helped launch Cambridge Analytica in 2013 with the financial backing of conservative mega-donor Robert Mercer. Bannon was a top executive for the company until he joined the Trump campaign in August 2016. In an interview with the Post, whistleblower Chris Wylie, a former Cambridge Analytica employee, said Bannon was deeply involved with the company's data-gathering efforts. "We had to get Bannon to approve everything at this point. Bannon was Alexander Nix's boss," Wylie said of the company's CEO, who was suspended earlier Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica allegedly mined data from 50 million Facebook users without their consent for use during the 2016 presidential campaign. Facebook Inc.                                shares have tumbled almost 10% this week.   


[w823]  Facebook to investigate handling of leaked data of 50 million American users to Trump's consultants Facebook’s fight against misinformation in the News Feed: As much a human problem as Facebook's      Facebook to investigate handling of leaked data of 50 million American users to Trump's consultants   Facebook announced on 19 March that it has hired a digital forensics firm to investigate the handling of data on millions of Americans leaked to a consulting firm working on Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Representational image. Reuters. The move by Facebook came amid an onslaught of criticism after reports that British firm Cambridge Analytica harvested personal data from the profiles of 50 million users of the social network without their knowledge or consent. (Also Read:   Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and the alleged 'data breach': Here's all you need to know ) A Facebook statement said the forensics firm Stroz Friedberg would "conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica," and that the company had agreed to comply and provide access to its servers and systems. Facebook said University of Cambridge psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, who developed the app used to harvest user data, also agreed to cooperate. It added that Christopher Wylie, a Canadian data analytics expert who worked with Kogan and who revealed the data leak to media, had declined to cooperate with the audit. "This is part of a comprehensive internal and external review that we are conducting to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists," the California social network giant said. It noted that the parties involved had certified to Facebook the data in question had been destroyed, but said that "if this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook's policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made." Facebook says its terms of service were violated when Kogan "lied" and used the results of his personality quiz to pass on data to Cambridge Analytica, which helped in Trump's 2016 campaign. "We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information," Facebook said. "We also want to be clear that today when developers create apps that ask for certain information from people, we conduct a robust review to identify potential policy violations and to assess whether the app has a legitimate use for the data. We actually reject a significant number of apps through this process." 


[w824] 

[w825]  Whistleblower says Steve Bannon was at the heart of Cambridge Analytica’s data collection operation.  Whistleblower Says Steve Bannon Was at the Heart of Cambridge Analytica’s Data Collection Operation        Steve Bannon was a part of the Cambridge Analytica team for the early days and signed off on its data acquisition, whistleblower Chris Wylie says. Sylvain Lefevre/Getty Images  British data firm Cambridge Analytica is currently under fire on multiple continents for its methods , namely using data illegitimately collected from Facebook users in order to create psychological profiles of some 50 million American voters. For some perspective, if that 50 million number holds, it would account for more than a quarter of the votes cast on election day in 2016. Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by almost three million votes with nearly 63 million votes. The London-based firm linked up with the Donald Trump during his presidential campaign, but former Trump campaign chief and White House adviser Steve Bannon was involved with the company long before the Trump campaign has morphed from theoretical nightmare to an actual one. The Washington Post reported Tuesday that Bannon, who was then the head of Breitbart News with a billionaire patron in Robert Mercer, was deeply influential in the early formation of Cambridge Analytica and signed off on its acquisition of the dodgy data.   From June 2014 until August 2016, when Bannon joined the Trump campaign, the sudden Trump confidante served as the vice president and secretary of Cambridge Analytica. Bannon also served on the company’s board and owned a portion of the company estimated to be worth between $1 million and $5 million. Former Cambridge Analytica research director Chris Wylie, who has over the last week acted as a whistleblower divulging the internal functioning of the company, told the Post that Bannon was “deeply involved in the company’s strategy and approved spending nearly $1 million to acquire data, including Facebook profiles, in 2014.”  “We had to get Bannon to approve everything at this point. Bannon was Alexander Nix’s boss,” Wylie told the Post. “Alexander Nix didn’t have the authority to spend that much money without approval.” That puts Bannon squarely in the timeframe where the upstart data company was trying to build its trove in order to construct a database to target voters. Cambridge Analytica has claimed innocence and ignorance of how the data was collected that allowed it to build voter profiles and, the Post notes, it’s not clear if Bannon knew how individuals’ personal data was obtained. So far the brunt of the criticism has been directed at Russian researcher Aleksandr Kogan , who created the app that was used to scrap the data of millions of Facebook users. Kogan told CNN Tuesday he didn’t believe he was violating Facebook’s data policy at the time and relied on the assurances of Chris Wylie at Cambridge Analytica. 

[w826] 

[w827] Congress turns up heat on Facebook after allegations of data harvesting  Congress turns up heat on Facebook after allegations of data harvesting  Congress is ratcheting up political pressure on Facebook after reports that a political data analytics firm employed by President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign received personal data and information from up to 50 million profiles on the popular social networking site. Lawmakers involved in congressional investigations into Russian election interference have renewed interest in the platform, calling for top company leaders to testify on Capitol Hill and more scrutiny of safeguards meant to protect user data. “I think it’s time for the CEO, Mr. [Mark] Zuckerberg, and other top officials to come and testify and not tell part of the story, but tell the whole story of their involvement -- not only with the Trump campaign but their ability to have their platform misused by the Russians,” Sen. Mark Warner , D-Va., the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, told ABC News. Trump-linked analytics firm Cambridge Analytica used stolen data, ex-employee says Stephen Colbert tackles stolen data scandal: 'The one time I actually wanted a Facebook alert' “These tech platforms .... need to be more forthcoming or Washington is going to start imposing rules and regulations that may not fit,” he warned. Sens. Amy Klobuchar , D-Minn., and John Kennedy, R-La., members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, wrote to chairman Chuck Grassley requesting a hearing with social media company CEO’s, including Zuckerberg. Facebook letter from Senate Judiciary Committee 3.19.2018 by ABC News Politics on Scribd On Saturday, The New York Times and The Observer of London reported that the data firm, Cambridge Analytica, mined data from millions of Facebook users -- largely without permission -- through an app created by a Russian-American psychologist, with the goal of using the data to create voter profiles and craft political messages. Facebook did not publicly acknowledge the possible data breach until the report surfaced over the weekend, and did not notify users that their information had been obtained by a third party. Cambridge Analytica has denied improperly obtaining any data, said they destroyed the unauthorized data as soon as they learned of it and said none of the information was used in its work 2016 presidential campaign work. On Monday, Facebook announced that it had hired a digital forensics firm, Stroz Friedberg, to audit Cambridge Analytica and sweep the firm’s servers and systems to confirm that the tranche of Facebook data had been destroyed after acknowledging reports that the data may still exist. “We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” the company said in a statement. Facebook has turned over records to investigators with special counsel Robert Mueller ’s team and the company has said it is cooperating. Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, has invited Christopher Wylie, the former Cambridge Analytica contractor who first spoke with The Times and The Observer, to appear for an interview with his staff. He said Democrats have also invited the Russian-American researcher Alexandr Kogan, to appear for an interview. Cambridge Analytica provided documents to the House Intelligence Committee about its work with the Trump campaign last year. The panel also interviewed CEO Alexander Nix over video conference from a Washington law office instead of in person at the Capitol, a move that frustrated committee Democrats. Nix was questioned about the firm’s work with the Trump campaign. “We need to bring [Nix] back. I also think we need to bring in the other witnesses from Cambridge Analytica that we had asked the majority to previously [agree to],” Schiff said, referencing Democrats’ calls for interviews with other Cambridge Analytica executives and GOP donor Rebekah Mercer, whose father Robert helped create the political data firm. Facebook has already faced scrutiny and calls for regulation in Washington amid investigations into Russian efforts to disrupt the election using fake news and political ads disseminated on the platform and other social media sites. Lawmakers, including Warner and Klobuchar, have called for tighter regulations of online political ads and greater disclosure requirements, which Facebook and other tech companies have resisted. The company has also worked to improve its image in Washington in recent months: Chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg traveled to Washington last fall to meet with congressional leaders in October amid the House and Senate Intelligence Committee investigations into Russian election meddling. 

