[w453]  Trump’s campaign team used stolen Facebook data, ex-employee of Cambridge Analytica says By As investigation into Russia influence in the last staged US presidential elections deepens, an ex- Cambridge Analytica employee has accused his former employers of mishandling the personal information of more than 50 million Facebook users in an effort to help Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge Analytica and worked there until late 2014, told ABC News the company would use the information, including Facebook users’ hometowns, friends and “likes” to influence the behaviour of potential voters. “Cambridge Analytica will try to pick at whatever mental weakness or vulnerability that we think you have and try to warp your perception of what’s real around you,” Wylie told ABC News in the interview. “If you are looking to create an information weapon, the battle space you operate in is social media. That is where the fight happens.” Read also: Two days ago, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica, a data-analysis firm that worked for the Trump campaign, while it investigates whether the company held onto improperly obtained user data after telling Facebook it had deleted the information. The social network said in a blog post that the firm violated its policies by receiving user data from a Facebook app created by a University of Cambridge professor. But while Cambridge Analytica certified in 2015 said that it had destroyed the wayward data, Facebook said, the social network received reports “several days ago” that not all the data was deleted. Cambridge Analytica claims to build psychological profiles based on personal details from millions of Americans that can categorize individual voters. The company has surfaced on several occasions in probes of 2016 Russian election interference.   

[w454] Facebook stock is down 4% after an enormous data breach 				Facebook stock is down 4% after an enormous data breach 				Politicians are on the offensive against Facebook after revelations about Cambridge Analytica. Excessive blinking or pursed lips (REUTERS/Adnan Abidi)  news Facebook&apos;s stock is tanking Monday in premarket trading. News broke over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica, a controversial political research company with links to Donald Trump, had accessed 50 million Facebook user profiles illegitimately. Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform but is under huge political pressure to explain how it can stop third parties from abusing its massive data trove. Facebook&apos;s share price has dropped 4.05% in premarket trading on Monday, most likely thanks to the news that the political-research firm Cambridge Analytica used its site to harvest 50 million user profiles illegitimately. According to Markets Insider , Facebook&apos;s share price stands at $177.60 in premarket trading, down from $185.09 at the market close on Friday. The drop wipes about $21 million off Facebook&apos;s market cap. Lawmakers in the US and the UK are examining Facebook and its role in election interference Facebook is under huge pressure from lawmakers in the US and the UK over the way it handles user data and how that data can be manipulated for targeted political advertising. The Guardian and The New York Times reported on Saturday that Cambridge Analytica had accessed data from 50 million Facebook users during the 2016 US presidential campaign without their permission. It used that information for highly targeted political ads on Facebook. A former Cambridge Analytica employee, Christopher Wylie, blew the whistle, saying: "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people&apos;s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis that the entire company was built on." Cambridge Analytica managed to access the data after teaming up with a University of Cambridge psychology professor, Aleksandr Kogan, and his company Global Science Research in 2014. GSR had developed an app, Thisisyourdigitallife, which examined what people "liked" on Facebook. Cambridge Analytica and GSR paid about 270,000 people to download the app and take a personality test — but the app also siphoned off data about the users&apos; friends. Facebook eventually became aware of the app, and it asked GSR and Cambridge Analytica to delete all the data they held on users. But The New York Times found Cambridge Analytica still held most of the data. Facebook suspended the company from its platform on Friday , prior to the full revelations becoming public but after it had been notified that a story was being published. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida said Facebook acted as though it were above the law . And Damian Collins, the British politician overseeing a select committee investigation into fake news, said on Sunday that Cambridge Analytica had misled members of Parliament over its use of Facebook data. He also said Facebook executives had tried to avoid tough questions over their company&apos;s role in spreading fake news and in election interference. "Alexander Nix denied to the Committee last month that his company had received any data from the Global Science Research company (GSR)," he said. "From the evidence that has been published by The Guardian and The Observer this weekend, it seems clear that he has deliberately mislead the Committee and Parliament by giving false statements." He added: "I will be writing to Mark Zuckerberg asking that either he, or another senior executive from the company, appear to give evidence in front of the Committee as part our inquiry. It is not acceptable that they have previously sent witnesses who seek to avoid asking difficult questions by claiming not to know the answers. This also creates a false reassurance that Facebook&apos;s stated policies are always robust and effectively policed." 

[w455] Snap sinks as Facebook fallout ripples throughout tech 					Snap sinks as Facebook fallout ripples throughout tech (SNAP) Snap shares are down 4%. Investors are concerned about regulatory impacts on internet companies," Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter told Business Insider. Snap (Markets Insider)  news Snap shares are down about 4% Monday as Facebook woes weigh on tech stocks. Over the weekend, news broke over that Cambridge Analytica, a political research company, had accessed 50 million Facebook user profiles illegitimately. "Investors are concerned about regulatory impacts on internet companies," Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter told Business Insider. Snap shares are under pressure Monday as the fallout from Facebook&apos;s woes sends ripples throughout the tech sector. Over the weekend, news broke over that Cambridge Analytica, a political research company, had accessed 50 million Facebook user profiles illegitimately. The information was allegedly used for highly targeted political ads on Facebook, and may have impacted both the 2016 presidential election and Brexit vote. While Snap has struggled with its own questionable content in recent days, it was not related to politics. Last week, the company was forced to pull an ad from its Snapchat app which asked users whether they&apos;d rather "slap Rihanna or punch Chris Brown." That was in reference to assaulted Rihanna in 2009.  

[w456]  Britain's information commissioner is investigating whether Facebook data was "illegally acquired and used," after the social network suspended Cambridge Analytica, a firm that worked for U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. Facebook suspended the company over allegations it retained improperly obtained user data after claiming it had deleted the information. Related Related article :T&T; data mining project allegedly connected to Brexit, Donald Trump Cambridge Analytica also allegedly carried out a data-mining programme in Trinidad and Tobago in 2013 under the government's National Security Ministry, according to a Guardian UK report in May 2017 . The British probe is part of a broader inquiry into how political parties, data companies and social media platforms use personal information to target voters during political campaigns, including Britain's 2016 Brexit referendum on EU membership. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said Saturday it's important "the public are fully aware of how information is used and shared in modern political campaigns and the potential impact on their privacy." She said "any criminal and civil enforcement actions arising from the investigation will be pursued vigorously." 

[w465] Facebook suspends Trump election data firm for policy breach    This article first appeared in The Edge Financial Daily, on . - A + A SAN FRANCISCO: Facebook Inc suspended Cambridge Analytica, a data company that helped President Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election and which might have collected data from 50 million Facebook profiles without their owners’ permission. The social-networking company said in a blog post last Friday that Cambridge Analytica received some user data through an app developer on its social network, violating its policies. In 2015, Facebook said Cambridge Analytica certified that it had destroyed the information. “Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted,” Facebook said in a statement. Cambridge Analytica and parent Strategic Communication Laboratories have been suspended from the social network, “pending further information”, Facebook said. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Saturday it did nothing illegal and is in touch with Facebook in order to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. Originally funded by Robert Mercer, the conservative political donor and former co-chief executive officer of Renaissance Technologies, Cambridge uses data to reach voters with hyper-targeted messaging, including on Facebook and other online services. It was hired to help with voter outreach by the Trump campaign, whose former campaign manager, Steve Bannon, had been on the company’s board.          


[w466] Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg under pressure over data breach  Over the weekend, entreaties for the social-media giant to take responsibility evolved into calls for Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to appear in front of lawmakers. — AFP pic LOS ANGELES, March 19 — Government officials in the US and Europe are demanding answers from Facebook Inc after reports that Cambridge Analytica, the advertising-data firm that helped Donald Trump win the US presidency, retained information on tens of millions of Facebook users without their consent.  Over the weekend, entreaties for the social-media giant to take responsibility evolved into calls for Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to appear in front of lawmakers. Facebook has already testified about how its platform was used by Russian propagandists ahead of the 2016 election, but the company never put Zuckerberg himself in the spotlight with government leaders. The pressure may also foreshadow tougher regulation for the social network. “It’s clear these platforms can’t police themselves,” Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said Saturday on Twitter. “They say ‘trust us.’ Mark Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary.” Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey also separately launched an investigation. The company on Friday said that a professor used Facebook’s log-in tools to get people to sign up for what he claimed was a personality-analysis app he had designed for academic purposes. To take the quiz, 270,000 people gave the app permission to access data via Facebook on themselves and their friends, exposing a network of 50 million people, according to the New York Times . That kind of access was allowed per Facebook’s rules at the time. Afterward, the professor violated Facebook’s terms when he passed along that data to Cambridge Analytica.  Shares in Facebook were down 2.2 per cent during early trading at 5am in New York. Facebook found out about the breach in 2015, shut down the professor’s access and asked Cambridge Analytica to certify that it had deleted the user data. Yet the social network on Friday suspended Cambridge from its system, explaining that it had learned the information wasn’t erased. Cambridge, originally funded by conservative political donor Robert Mercer, on Saturday denied that it still had access to the user data, and said it was working with Facebook on a solution. A researcher who worked with the professor on the app is now currently an employee at Facebook, which is reviewing whether he knew about the data leak. The denials and refutations did little to ease the criticism. Damian Collins, a British lawmaker, said Sunday that Zuckerberg or another senior executive should appear in front of his committee because previous witnesses have avoided difficult questions, creating “a false reassurance that Facebook’s stated policies are always robust and effectively policed.’’ The next few weeks represent a critical time for Facebook to reassure users and regulators about its content standards and platform security, to prevent rules that could impact its main advertising business, according to Daniel Ives, an analyst at GBH Insights. “Changes to their business model around advertising and news feeds/content could be in store over the next 12 to 18 months,” Ives wrote in a note to investors. Facebook, meanwhile, has sought to explain that the mishandling of user data was out of its hands and doesn’t constitute a “breach” – a definition that would require the company to alert users about whether their information was taken, per US Federal Trade Commission rules. Menlo Park, California-based Facebook no longer allows app developers to ask for access to data on users’ friends. But the improper handling of the data raises systemic questions about how much companies can be trusted to protect personal information, said Nuala O’Connor, president and CEO of the Centre for Democracy & Technology. “While the misuse of data is not new, what we now see is how seemingly insignificant information about individuals can be used to decide what information they see and influence viewpoints in profound ways,” O’Connor said in a statement. “Communications technologies have become an essential part of our daily lives, but if we are unable to have control of our data, these technologies control us. For our democracy to thrive, this cannot continue.”


[w467] Facebook slides on report 50 million users had profiles accessed illegitimately   Facebook slides on report 50 million users had profiles accessed illegitimately By Kimberly Chin ,  Facebook ‘s stock dipped early Monday morning. The social media giant has faced intense criticism over news that Cambridge Analytica, a political research company with ties to President Donald Trump, had allegedly illegitimately obtained and used 50 million Facebook user profiles. US and UK lawmakers fear the data was used to sway voters in the last presidential election and Brexit. Watch Facebook’s stock move in real time here. Shares of Facebook fell 4% early Monday morning after news broke over the weekend that a third party was accused of accessing and using the data of more 50 million Facebook user profiles without their permission. The New York Times and Guardian reported Saturday that the controversial political research outfit, Cambridge Analytica, was accessed user information for highly targeted political ads on Facebook. Facebook says it provided the data to a University of Cambridge psychology professor, Aleksandr Kogan, for “academic purposes” but that Kogan gave the data to a third party, Cambridge Analytica. The social-media company says that was a violation of its privacy policy, so it immediately suspended Cambridge Analytica , Kogan, and Cambridge Analytica’s founder, Christopher Wylie, while asking them to delete all of their data. Wylie, who no longer works for Cambridge Analytica, was the whistle-blower who detailed how the firm harvested the data from over 50 million Facebook profiles, as well as their “likes” and their friends. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg UK lawmakers have already questioned Cambridge Analytica executives in court over it’s handling of Facebook’s private user data and its involvement in manipulating voter beliefs in the Brexit elections. Damian Collins, a member of parliament, said he plans to ask Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg or a senior executive to testify before the group. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg The attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey, said she may launch an investigation into this matter. Facebook has been under intense heat for its role in allegedly allowing parties tied to Russia and the Kremlin to launch political ads and disseminate “fake news” on its platform to influence US voters during the last presidential election. Zuckerberg maintained that the idea Facebook had any serious impact on the election was “crazy.” European regulators have been especially concerned over privacy and what happens to Facebook’s trove of user data. Facebook’s stock was trading at $177.74 per share, and was down 2.09% for the year.  


[w468] Facebook (FB): shares dropping here, down around 5%. Shares are under pressure in light of revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm that worked on Trump’s campaign, had inappropriately gained access to the accounts of 50 million Facebook users. Orbotech (ORBK): shares surging in early trade, up over 10%. Chip gear maker KLA-Tencor will buy Orbotech, which manufacturers products to make printed circuit boards and chip devices, for $3.4 billion in cash and stock. Synaptics (SYNA): shares slipping here, down over 1%. The news? Bloomberg is reporting Apple is developing its own screens for future iPhones, a development that could hurt suppliers like touchscreen maker Synaptics.   


[w469] Facebook under pressure as EU, US urge probes of data practices Facebook Inc faced growing pressure on Monday after European and US lawmakers called for investigations into reports that a consultancy that worked on President Donald Trump’s campaign gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users. Facebook suspends 200 apps over... Facebook says data leak hits 87... Facebook profit trounces estimates... Facebook’s shares were down 7 per cent, wiping around $30 billion off its market value and dragging the S&P; 500 technology sector down almost 2 per cent. Facebook shares were on track for their biggest one-day percentage decline since October 2014. “We think this episode is another indication of systemic problems at Facebook,” said Brian Wieser, analyst at New York-based brokerage Pivotal Research Group, which already has a “sell” rating on a stock that rose 60 per cent last year. Wieser argued that regulatory risks for the company would intensify and enhanced use of data in advertising would be at greater risk than before. The scrutiny presents a new threat to Facebook’s reputation, which is already under attack over Russians’ use of Facebook tools to sway American voters with “fake news” posts before and after the 2016 US elections. The New York Times and the British Observer newspaper reported on Saturday that the political analytics firm Cambridge Analytica had harvested private data on more than 50 million Facebook users to support Trump's 2016 presidential election campaign. Facebook said on Friday that it had learned in 2015 that a Cambridge University psychology professor had lied to the company and violated its policies by passing data to Cambridge Analytica from a psychology testing app he had built. Facebook said it suspended the firms and researchers involved. Facebook said the data had been misused but not stolen, because users gave permission. Cambridge Analytica and its CEO were not immediately available to comment on Monday. A spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the allegations were “clearly very concerning . . . . It is essential that people can have confidence that their personal data will be protected and used in an appropriate way.” Britain’s Information Commissioner’s Office said it would be considering the potential new evidence as part its separate civil and criminal probe into whether Facebook user data had been abused in British elections. The head of European Parliament said on Monday that EU lawmakers will investigate whether data misuse had taken place, calling the allegations an unacceptable violation of citizens’ privacy rights. Facebook was already facing new calls on Saturday for regulation from US Congress and questions about personal data safeguards after the reports in the New York Times and London’s Observer over the weekend. On Monday, Republican Senator John Kennedy joined his Democratic colleague Amy Klobuchar in calling on Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg to testify before Congress about data use. In a joint letter, Kennedy and Klobuchar asked Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley to hold a hearing with Zuckerberg and the chief executives of Alphabet Inc’s Google and Twitter Inc, reflecting mounting bipartisan concern in Washington about how the companies share personal user data.

[w470]   Facebook just hired Stroz Friedberg, the same outside investigator Uber called on during its biggest controversy   Facebook just hired Stroz Friedberg, the same outside investigator Uber called on during its biggest controversy By Julie Bort Cambridge Analytica obtained data on millions of users to influence the 2016 election and Brexit vote, according to a whistleblower. Facebook asked Cambridge Analytica to delete that data back in 2016, but never verified that it did. In the wake of an uproar, Facebook just promised to find out if CA still has the data. It hired Stroz Friedberg, the same investigator once used by Uber. Facebook released a statement on Monday saying that it hired Stroz Friedberg, a digital forensics firm, to determine whether Cambridge Analytica, the analytics company it banned from its platform on Friday, still possesses any Facebook user data. The data was taken from 50 million Facebook users back in 2014 through a sneaky method: a quiz app called “thisisyourdigitallife,” which was billed as a personality quiz, but which actually gathered data on people who used the app and their Facebook friends. The data was then used to send targeted political ads to people in 2016 US election and the Brexit vote, The Observer reports. The man who built that app, Aleksandr Kogan, has ties to Cambridge University, as well as the Russian government. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg In 2015, Facebook became aware that the app was violating Facebook’s terms, and in 2016, sent a letter to the people and companies involved demanding that they delete the user data, The New York Times reports. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg Those associated with Cambridge Analytica promised to delete the data, but Facebook never followed up to verify they kept that promise. It didn’t even ban Cambridge Analytica from its platform until Friday, just before news reports were about to publish on the situation. Such an investigation is, for all practical purposes, too little and too late. The New York Times said it has seen copies of the data that still exist out in the wild. And there are other things to note about Facebook’s statement. For instance, it says it’s hiring Stroz Friedberg as the investigator. This was the same investigator Uber hired to determine if former Google’s self-driving car engineer Anthony Levandowski had taken any intellectual property with him when he left the company. To refresh your memory, Stroz discovered that Levandowski did possess thousands of those files, which was revealed because Waymo, Google’s self-driving spin-off company, sued Uber. And we can’t help point out this part of Facebook’s statement, too: “This is data Cambridge Analytica, SCL, Mr. Wylie, and Mr. Kogan certified to Facebook had been destroyed. If this data still exists, i t would be a grave violation of Facebook’s policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made.” Facebook seems to be shocked that people who had disreputably gathered its user data in the first place couldn’t be trusted to simply delete the data when Facebook asked them to do so. The rest of the world isn’t so convinced that Facebook should be let off the hook. The hashtag #deletefacebook has been trending on Twitter. The European Union has launched an investigation into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. So has the attorney general of Massachusetts . And Ron Wyden, a senator on the committee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 US election, has sent a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg demanding answers as well. 

[w471] 

[w472]   


[w473] A new threat to Facebook’s reputation | IOL Business Report  


[w474]

[w475]  European Union to investigate alleged Facebook data breach European Union to investigate alleged Facebook data breach By Agencies -  Lawmakers for the European Union have announced an investigation after allegations user data of 50 million Facebook accounts were misused. The investigation comes after Christopher Wylie, a whistle-blower who worked for data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, said on Saturday data of the 50 million users were harvested without their knowledge or consent. Antonio Tajani, president of the European Parliament, said on Twitter the allegations, if true, constitute “an unacceptable violation of our citizens’ privacy rights”. “The European Parliament will investigate fully, calling digital platforms to account,” he said. The UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office, which concerns itself with privacy and data protection, reiterated on Monday it is also investigating the issue. “A full understanding of the facts, data flows and data uses is imperative for my ongoing investigation. This includes any new information, statements or evidence that have come to light in recent days,” Elizabeth Denham, information commissioner, said. “This is a complex and far reaching investigation for my office and any criminal or civil enforcement actions arising from it will be pursued vigorously.” On Friday, the New York Times and London Observer broke a story about how Cambridge Analytica paid for illegally obtained personal information of 50 million Facebook users. The company, which worked on Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and the pro-Brexit campaign as a consultant, then used that information to build a software program which could target potential swing voters, the newspapers found. Cambridge Analytica allegedly got the data of the 50 million people from Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American researcher. He built an app called ‘thisisyourdigitallife’ that collected data for “academic research”. However, the app not only collected personal information of the people who downloaded the app and consented to having their data used, but also of unknowing friends, according to the newspapers’ investigation. Cambridge Analytica, who paid Kogan’s company and to build the app, was then able to create highly detailed profiles of 50 million people. That data was subsequently used for several political campaigns, among them Trump’s and Ted Cruz’s presidential runs, as well as the Brexit campaign in the UK. According to the Facebook terms of services, the sale of information to third parties is not allowed. As a result of the news, Facebook shares have plummeted. The company said in a response all parties involved, including the whistle-blower Wylie, had been suspended fpending an internal investigation. Facebook, whose headquarters are based in Ireland, added on Saturday the data gathered were not the result of a breach, but that people knowingly provided their information and no sensitive pieces of information were stolen. Cambridge Analytica has claimed in a statement that it did not use the gathered data for its work with the Trump presidential campaign and that has followed Facebook’s terms of services. Funding for Cambridge Analytica came from former White House adviser Steve Bannon and hedge-fund financiers Robert and Rebekah Mercer, who supported the Trump campaign. 

[w476] Cambridge Analytica ‘Strongly Denies’ Data Misuse Allegations Channels Television Updated March 19, 2018 In this file photo taken on February 27, 2018 a video grab from footage broadcast by the UK Parliament’s Parliamentary Recording Unit (PRU) on February 27, 2018 shows Chief Executive, Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, giving evidence to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee of members of parliament on the subject of fake news at the Houses of Parliament in London on February 27, 2018.  HO / PRU / AFP   Cambridge Analytica, a British communications firm hired by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, said Monday that it “strongly denies” allegations it inappropriately harvested data on 50 million Facebook users as part of that work. “This Facebook data was not used by Cambridge Analytica as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump presidential campaign; personality targeted advertising was not carried out for this client either,” it said in a statement. The accusations by several British and US media outlets prompted Facebook’s shares to plunge on Monday, after the company suspended the account of Cambridge Analytica and officials on both sides of the Atlantic called for investigations. Britain’s Information Commissioner’s Office, which regulates the sector, announced on Monday that it would be going to court on Tuesday to seek a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica’s computer servers after it had been uncooperative. According to a joint probe by The New York Times and Britain’s Observer, Cambridge Analytica was able to create psychological profiles on 50 million Facebook users through the use of a personality prediction app that was downloaded by 270,000 people, but also scooped up data from friends. Facebook has pushed back against the claim of a major breach, suggesting misused data was limited to a far smaller group of users. Meanwhile, fresh allegations against senior executives at Cambridge Analytica emerged on Monday. The company’s chief executive Alexander Nix was secretly filmed by Britain’s Channel 4 News saying it could entrap politicians in compromising situations with bribes and sex workers, using ex-spies to dig up dirt on opponents. He also said the firm secretly campaigns in elections around the world, including by operating through a web of shadowy front companies, or by using sub-contractors. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told the news programme it does not use “untrue material for any purpose”. “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever,” the spokesman added.


[w477] 

[w479] 

[w480]  Cambridge Analytica Behaved Appallingly. Don’t Overreact. The horrendous actions by Cambridge Analytica, a voter profiling company, and Aleksander Kogan, a Russian-American researcher , raise serious questions about privacy, social media, democracy and fraud. Amidst the justified furor, one temptation should be firmly resisted: for public and private institutions to lock their data down, blocking researchers and developers from providing the many benefits that it promises – for health, safety, and democracy itself. The precise facts remain disputed, but according to reports, here’s what happened. Kogan worked as a lecturer at Cambridge University, which has a Psychometrics Centre. The Centre purports to be able to use data from Facebook (including "likes'') to ascertain people’s personality traits. Cambridge Analytica and one of its founders, Christopher Wylie, attempted to work with the Centre for purposes of vote profiling. It refused, but Kogan accepted the offer. Without disclosing his relationship to Cambridge Analytica, Kogan entered into an agreement with Facebook, which agreed to provide data to him - solely for his own research purposes. Kogan created an app, called "thisisyourdigitallife.'' Offering a personality prediction, the app described itself on Facebook as "a research app used by psychologists.'' About 270,000 Facebook users agreed to disclose their data (again, for research purposes). By sharing data with Cambridge Analytica, Kogan violated his agreement with Facebook. According to one report, he ended up providing more than 50 million user profiles to Cambridge Analytica, not for academic research, but to build profiles for partisan political uses . Armed with those profiles, Cambridge Analytica worked with members of the Ted Cruz and Donald Trump campaigns in 2016. Among other things, the firm helped to model voter turnout, identify audiences for fund-raising appeals and advertisements, and specify the best places for Trump to travel to increase support. As early as 2015, Facebook learned that Kogan was sharing his data, and it demanded that Kogan, Cambridge Analytica, and Wylie cease using, and destroy, all the information they had obtained. They certified that they had done so. That was a lie – which recently led Facebook to suspend all three from its platform. Facebook was careful to add, "People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.'' All this raises numerous questions – some of which involve difficult tradeoffs with respect to privacy and competing values. Aware of the risks, Facebook emphasizes that all apps requesting detailed user information have to "go through our App Review process, which requires developers to justify the data they’re looking to collect and how they’re going to use it – before they’re allowed to even ask people for it." In view of Kogan’s misconduct, it’s reasonable to ask whether that process contains sufficient safeguards. An external review panel might well be a good addition; continuing monitoring of all uses of Facebook data, on the part of app developers, seems important. But let’s not overreact. Authorized use of that data can do a great deal of good. For example, Genes for Good, from the University of Michigan, is now using a Facebook App to help combat diabetes, cancer, and heart disease. It is seeking to learn how genes interact with the environment to produce – or not to produce – serious illness. There’s tremendous potential there. A more immediate response to health problems is HealthTap, an app that permits users to type questions into Facebook’s Messenger and to obtain free responses from doctors – or to see answers from doctors to questions that are like their own. Stanford’s Raj Chetty, one of the world’s leading experts on inequality, is working with Facebook data to learn more about economic opportunity and in particular to understand the sources of intergenerational mobility. Chetty has an extraordinary track record and there’s every reason to think that we will learn a great deal from his work. With respect to politics , the Pew Research Center has used Facebook data to see how often, and exactly when, members of Congress directly express disagreement with the other party. Pew found that disagreement comes most often from party leaders – and that it is far more common from Republicans than from Democrats. Sure, those aren’t the most surprising findings, but there is far more to learn about polarization and partisanship – and Facebook’s data will prove exceedingly valuable. It is true, of course, that social media users should have a great deal of control over whether and how their information is used, and that app developers should be sharply constrained in their ability to share data. The U.S. government has faced, and solved, similar problems: Data.gov discloses a great deal of information, with more than 230,000 data sets involving health, safety, travel, energy, and the environment. Available apps, made possible by that information, are helping people to save money and to avoid health risks . For social media providers, including Facebook, the Cambridge Analytica fiasco underlines the need for more careful vetting of all developers who seek access to their data. But it would be a mistake to take the fiasco as a reason to keep treasure troves of information out of the hands of people who can provide immensely valuable services with it. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Cass R. Sunstein is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the editor of "Can It Happen Here? Authoritarianism in America" and a co-author of “Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth and Happiness.” Disclosure: In the last year, I have occasionally served as a consultant to Facebook, but not on any issue related in any way to the topic here.   


[w481]  After FB data breach, Cambridge Analytica accused of using bribes, sex workers to entrap politicians Britain's Channel 4 News said it mounted a “sting operation” in which it said had secretly recorded top Cambridge Analytica executives saying they could use bribes, former spies and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians around the world. Cambridge Analytica, the UK political consultancy at the centre of Facebook ’s election manipulation scandal, ran the campaigns of President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2013 and 2017 Kenyan elections, according to video secretly recorded and broadcast by Britain’s Channel 4 News on Monday. The company denied all allegations made by Channel 4 News regarding its business practices. The news channel said it mounted a “sting operation” in which it said had secretly recorded top Cambridge Analytica executives saying they could use bribes, former spies and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians around the world. The New York Times and the British Observer newspaper reported on Saturday that Cambridge Analytica had acquired private data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to support Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential election campaign. Explained |  How huge Facebook data trove was used in Donald Trump US election campaign Mark Turnbull, a managing director for Cambridge Analytica and sister company SCL Elections, told Channel 4’s undercover investigative reporting team that his firm secretly stage-managed Kenyatta’s hotly contested campaigns to run the East African nation. “We have rebranded the entire party twice, written the manifesto, done research, analysis, messaging. I think we wrote all the speeches and we staged the whole thing – so just about every element of this candidate,” Turnbull said of his firm’s work for Kenyatta’s political party, known as the National Alliance until 2016, and subsequently as the Jubilee Party. Kenyatta came to power in 2013 and won a second and final term last August, defeating opposition leader Raila Odinga by 1.4 million votes. The Supreme Court nullified the vote citing procedural irregularities and ordered a second election. Last September, former U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton called the second election a “project” of Cambridge Analytica. The Jubilee Party has not commented. Odinga did not contest the repeat vote on Oct. 26, saying it would be unfair because the election commission had failed to implement reforms and Kenyatta won with 98 percent of the vote.  At a prior meeting, Turnbull told the reporters: “Our job is to really drop the bucket further down the well than anybody else to understand what are these really deep-seated fears, concerns. “It is no good fighting an election campaign on the facts, because actually it is all about emotion.” Cambridge Analytica officials were recorded saying they have used a web of shell companies to disguise their activities in elections in Mexico, Malaysia and Brazil, among various countries where they have worked to sway election outcomes. Chief Executive Alexander Nix is recorded boasting: “We are not only the largest and most significant political consultancy in the world but we have the most established track record. We need to operate through different vehicles, in the shadows.” “I look forward to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you,” he tells the reporters. Cambridge Analytica denied all allegations made by Channel 4 News regarding its business practices. The company said in statement it was humouring the undercover reporters and trying to gauge their motives by actively encouraging them, “to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions”. Channel 4 noted that their last meeting with Cambridge Analytica had taken place in January at a London hotel and that company employees had continued to email them seeking to strike a deal to work on a Sri Lankan campaign up until recently. Cambridge Analytica acknowledged in a statement that, its CEO had “misjudged the situation”. Nix said: “I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honeytraps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose.” 

[w482]  

[w483]  Here's the personality test Cambridge Analytica had millions of Facebook users take Reports published this weekend from The New York Times and The Observer revealed that personality-profiling company Cambridge Analytica harvested data from millions of users and potentially used it in the most recent US presidential election. The personality test that the company used gives users a score called their "OCEAN" score, referring to how it calculates their performance on a measure of Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. The test is available for free online at the University of Cambridge Psychometrics Center and forms the basis of many existing psychological studies on happiness and longevity. A personality-profiling company called Cambridge Analytica harvested personal data from millions of users and may have used that data to sway voters during the 2016 US presidential election, according to reports published this weekend from The New York Times and The Observer. The company, which received $15 million from wealthy Republican donor Robert Mercer and was once run by Steve Bannon, was tasked by Bannon with identifying the personalities of US voters and potentially influencing how they behaved. At the core of Cambridge Analytica's work is a simple personality test designed by Cambridge scientists that is available for free online and forms the basis of many existing psychological studies on happiness and longevity. The test gives users a score called their "OCEAN" score, referring to how it calculates their performance on a measure of Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. You can take the test online now simply by clicking "proceed." 

[w484] 

[w485]  Facebook Says Cambridge Analytica Audit on Hold Amid U.K.A digital forensic firm enlisted by Facebook Inc. to investigate Cambridge Analytica has put its audit on hold, pending a separate probe by the U.K. government. Facebook had said earlier that it enlisted the firm Stroz Friedberg to assess advertising-data provider Cambridge Analytica, whose handling of Facebook user data has embroiled the social networking company in controversy. “At the request of the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down,” Facebook said Monday. At issue is information on millions of Facebook users that Cambridge Analytica obtained from a researcher who shared the data without Facebook’s permission. According to published news reports, Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan created a personality-analysis app that was used by 270,000 Facebook users, who in turn gave the app permission to access data on themselves and their friends, ultimately exposing a network of 50 million. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica had agreed to be audited by Stroz Friedberg to determine whether the data company still has the information, which it said has been deleted. The data company, which worked for U.S. President Donald Trump during the 2016 campaign, was required to destroy the information in 2015 when Facebook learned it had the data, but reportedly failed to do so. Cambridge Analytica has denied wrongdoing. “If this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook’s policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made,” Facebook said. “We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims.” Digital forensics firm Stroz Friedberg will conduct a “comprehensive audit,” and Cambridge Analytica will provide “complete access to their servers and systems,” Facebook wrote before the audit was put on hold.   

[w486] The CEO of Cambridge Analytica was secretly filmed offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers The CEO of Cambridge Analytica was secretly filmed offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers Jake Kanter Channel 4 News secretly filmed Cambridge Analytica (CA) CEO Alexander Nix offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers. The bombshell investigation also shows CA admitting to discreetly seeding compromising videos of politicians on the internet and helping them go viral. CA entirely refutes any allegation that it uses entrapment tactics. It comes just days after the company was suspended by Facebook over a huge data scandal. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica (CA), the Donald Trump-linked political research company at the centre of a massive Facebook data scandal , has been secretly filmed offering shadowy services to entrap politicians. The bombshell footage was broadcast on Monday as part of an investigation by Channel 4 News and comes just days after CA was suspended from Facebook over a data incident involving 50 million US voters. CA Chief Executive Alexander Nix and his colleagues were filmed by an undercover reporter over the course of four meetings between November 2017 and January this year. The Channel 4 News journalist posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. In one exchange with Nix filmed in January, the CEO said CA could send a fake "wealthy developer" to Sri Lanka to offer incumbent politicians a "large amount of money" in a "deal that's too good to be true," such as buying a plot of land. "We'll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we'll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet," Nix said on camera, adding: "These sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption." Business Insider approached CA for comment. The company told Channel 4 News that it entirely refutes any allegations that it entrapped politicians. Offering bribes to public officials is an offence under both the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. CA operates in the UK and is registered in the US. At the same meeting at London's five-star Berkeley Hotel, Nix said CA could "send some girls around to the candidate's house, we have lots of history of things." He added: "It was just an idea, I'm just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know, you know what I'm saying." Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, described the process by which the company goes through to discreetly seed compromising videos on the internet and help them go viral. At a meeting in December, he told Channel 4's reporter: "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control." He also said: "It has to happen without anyone thinking, 'that's propaganda,' because the moment you think 'that's propaganda,' the next question is: 'Who's put that out?'" Channel 4 News' investigation also delves into how CA allegedly used "shadowy front companies" or sub-contractors to achieve its aims. You can watch excerpts from the secret filming below. Business Insider contacted CA more than two hours before the Channel 4 investigation was broadcast. A spokesman said it was "hard to reply to something we haven't seen." But Business Insider understands Channel 4 sent CA a 20-page document detailing the allegations and the contents of the undercover filming a week ago. A CA spokesman told Channel 4 News: "We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called 'honey-traps' for any purpose whatsoever." He added: "Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose." The revelations follow former CA employee Christopher Wylie blowing the whistle on how the company harvested the Facebook data of 50 million US voters and used it to power software that helped target voters with personalised political advertising. Channel 4 News will broadcast further allegations about CA's work for Donald Trump's presidential campaign later this week. 

[w487]  House Russia Probe To Close Despite Revelations About Data Firm - The Republican leading the House investigation into Russian election meddling said revelations that a data firm working with Donald Trump’s presidential campaign may have improperly harvested data on millions of Facebook users doesn’t change his plans to shut down the probe this week. “I have no intention of bringing in any other witnesses to the Russia investigation," Representative Michael Conaway said Monday.   Conaway, a Texas Republican, called reports that Cambridge Analytica may have exploited Facebook and obtained millions of people’s profiles without authorization “concerning,” but he said the Intelligence Committee would wrap up its Russia inquiry on Thursday with a vote on whether to approve a majority-written report of it conclusions. If approved, the report would then undergo vetting to redact classified information by intelligence agencies before a formal public release, possibly within days. Conaway and other Republicans have already announced they have found no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in the election meddling. Conaway’s comments came as the top Democrat on the committee, Representative Adam Schiff, has called for Cambridge Analytica to be investigated. He says that Facebook also must answer questions. Schiff also has threatened to subpoena Alexander Nix, chief executive of U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica, to testify again before the panel. He said the reports call into question the veracity of some of Nix’s closed door testimony to the committee in December. He also wants the panel to get testimony from a Cambridge Analytica whistleblower, Christopher Wylie Some Democrats also are calling for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify before the Senate judiciary committee about what the social media company knew about the misuse of its data. Cambridge Analytica and parent Strategic Communication Laboratories have been suspended from Facebook, "pending further information," the Menlo Park, California-based company said in a blog post Friday. Cambridge Analytica said in a Saturday statement it did nothing illegal and was ​in touch with Facebook in order to resolve the matter as quickly as possible.


[w488]  Cambridge Analytica CEO Offered To Ensnare PoliticiansThe U.K.’s Channel 4 News aired secretly recorded footage purporting to show Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix discussing how political opponents could be discredited.  According to the report, he suggested sending “some girls around” to a political opponent’s house, adding that Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” Cambridge Analytica in a statement "strongly denied the claims." In an interview with the BBC’s Newsnight Nix said: “A lot of the allegations that have been put to Cambridge are entirely unfounded and extremely unfair.” U.K. politicians also piled on the pressure on Facebook Inc. The social network must end its days of “move fast and break things,” U.K. Culture Secretary Matt Hancock told lawmakers in the wake of reports that a political advertising firm kept information on millions of the social network’s users without their consent. In a series of angry comments to parliament about Facebook and its relationship with Cambridge Analytica, a data-analysis firm, Hancock said the company was going to have to improve its behavior. Hancock said that the “Wild West” days of “digital companies who flout rules and think that the best thing to do is to move fast and break things without respect for the impact that has on democracy and on society” were over. To cheers of support from across the chamber, Hancock also attacked the company for blocking whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its site. “I thought it was outrageous,” the Culture Secretary said. “We know in this house they don’t act fast enough to block other accounts of obviously outrageous behavior. It shows us that when they need to, they can block incredibly quickly."  


[w489] Lesson from Facebook data use for Trump campaign: Our data protection laws are not strong enough On March 17, news broke that Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that worked with Donald Trump’s election campaign, had harvested over 50 million users’ Facebook data without permission. The firm combined a range of users’ data, including “non-sensitive” information such as status updates and Facebook likes, with other sources of information (such as electoral rolls) to build psychographic profiles and target people based on their preferences and susceptibilities. As Christopher Wylie, a former data scientist at Cambridge Analytica and the whistle-blower behind the revelations, explained , the firm combined “micro-targeting” with constructs from psychology so that “we would not only be targeting you as a voter, we would be targeting you as a personality”. These revelations raise significant questions about how data-mining techniques impact society, especially given their use during campaigns in the 2016 United States presidential elections and the United Kingdom’s Brexit referendum. They also highlight foundational questions around the regulation of data in the age of big data – an issue that we are in the midst of a national conversation about in India. In particular, we are confronting a reality where information about us from various sources is increasingly linked and easily shareable, serving to reveal aspects of ourselves that we may not intend to disclose. As these data-mining techniques become reality, do we need to change how we think about what is sensitive data and what isn’t? Inadequate regulation The current regulatory approach to protecting personal data in India (under the Information Technology Act, 2000) follows a “list-based” approach. It identifies six types of “sensitive personal data”: (1) passwords, (2) financial information (such as bank account and payment instrument details), (3) health condition, (4) sexual orientation, (5) medical records and history, and (6) biometric information. This list is set out in rules passed under the Information Technology Act. The rules require entities handling such data to have “reasonable security practices and procedures” in place before collecting the information. Parties are free to agree on their own rules relating to such data, including any security standards or privacy policy. Entities must also take prior written consent from a person whose sensitive personal data they are collecting, and use it only for a specified purpose. In practice, however, prior written consent can be quite meaningless – as anyone who has mindlessly clicked on an “I Agree” button while signing up to lengthy terms and conditions will testify to. Users often have neither the choice nor the bandwidth to do anything other than sign away their consent for their information to be used for purposes often unclear at the time of entering into the contract. In any case, this old list-based approach appears to be totally incongruous with the world today, where we confront data mining techniques like the one used by Cambridge Analytica. No doubt, in this case, there are also questions around the impropriety of collecting the data of Facebook users without their knowledge and using it to deploy covert advertising techniques for messages that are in effect election canvassing. But it also showcases that lines are blurring when it comes to trying to identify the types of information that are sensitive enough to expose a person to a vulnerability. Several service providers around the world and across sectors are using similar data analytics to understand their users better. More and more providers actively aspire to a “ single customer view ” that provides a deep profile of all the data they hold on a particular individual. Our “digital breadcrumbs” – Facebook likes, browsing histories – would not typically be considered sensitive information in our current legal understanding. However, new data analysis techniques allow sensitive details such as religious beliefs, sexual orientation, ethnic or caste information to be revealed from other proxies or based on patterns gleaned from non-sensitive data of individuals without their knowledge or consent. Most of the data points used in such techniques would not be considered “sensitive personal data” under the current law or under the provisional view of an expert committee expressed in a white paper on a future data protection regime for India. The Information Technology Act identifies six types of personal data as sensitive – passwords, financial information, health condition, sexual orientation, medical records and history, and biometrics. (Credit: Reuters) New model for data protection regulation The time has come to reconsider our dogma around personal data regulation. The objective of the data protection law is to protect individuals themselves, not merely a subset of their personal data. To uphold this core objective, we can and should ensure that protection is offered to all personal information by which an individual is identified or through which they are identifiable. Doing so would focus regulation more appropriately on use of personal information in the context of the provision of a service, rather than blindly forcing organisations to “ring fence” certain types of data. The use of your medical records, for instance, would be necessary and proportionate to the service your hospital provides you, but not the use by a third-party recruitment firm discussing your employment with a potential employer. It is important to test the legitimacy of the use of any personal information in the context of its use. It is both possible and important to do so, as the model fleshed out in our response to public consultation on the white paper for data protection explains. We have proposed that a future law provide protection to all personally identifiable information. Whether such personal data can be used in a given situation will then hinge on a “legitimate purpose” test we have proposed – which will allow entities to use personal data where to do so is lawful, necessary and proportionate without overriding the individuals’ interest ( see page 42 of our full response ). This test is not the European Union’s legitimate interest standard but one we believe can go beyond it to fix some of its shortcomings. Finally, these principles should be backed by an enforcement framework based on responsive regulation. This would make these protections more meaningful, unlike the current state of affairs. Such an approach has the benefit of allowing the use of new types of data created by individuals for clearly identified legitimate purposes ex ante, and it will also incentivise the use of de-identification techniques like anonymisation that allow entities to retain personal data without infringing privacy or data protection rights. We must explore new ways to think about these emerging issues as we change how we interpret our increasingly digital lives. India has a unique opportunity to learn from others’ mistakes, especially as episodes like the Cambridge Analytica case and our own stories of data breaches come to light. We must use these lessons in our industry’s data practices and our national laws in the months and years ahead. Malavika Raghavan works on emerging issues for regulation around consumer protection and finance. She is currently project head, Future of Finance Initiative at Dvara Reasearch.     


[w490] Cambridge Analytica: Firm Courted By BJP, Congress (and Trump) In Trouble Over Data Breach Cambridge Analytica: Firm Courted By BJP, Congress (and Trump) In Trouble Over Data Breach Most of us in India know of Cambridge Analytica as the big data analytics firm that is reportedly being courted by both the BJP and the Congress in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The world over, the firm is famous -- or rather infamous -- for its role in Donald Trump’s ascension to the White House and its links to the Brexit Leave campaign in the United Kingdom. What the firm essentially does is use big data to help clients track preferences and thereby formulate strategies. Sounds simple enough till your begin to realise just exactly what this data is comprised of. A whistleblower recently revealed that Cambridge Analytica harvested millions of Facebook profiles of US voters and used the data to build a powerful software program to predict and influence voting choices. The firm built the system in early 2014, profiling individual voters and then using the information to target them with personalised political advertisements. The programme affected 50 million people, who never knew that their data had been taken. The data was used to construct complex psychological profiles of voters, who were then targeted with political ads that were designed to subtly motivate them to vote a particular way. Christopher Wylie, who worked with a Cambridge University academic to obtain the data, told the Observer: “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on.” It turns out that Facebook knew that this was going on. Documents show that by 2015 Facebook was well aware that information had been harvested on an unprecedented scale. Yet, it failed to alert users or take steps to recover and secure the information. Cambridge Analytica was headed at the time by Trump’s key adviser Steve Bannon. Data was collected through an app built by academic Aleksandr Kogan’s company Global Science Research (GSR). In collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, hundreds of thousands of users were paid to take a personality test and agreed to have their data collected for academic use. The app then collected the data of test taker’s pool of Facebook friends, going on to build a massive database. The story that Cambridge Analytica collected private information and used it to influence voting behaviour at the US elections comes as both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are one focus of an inquiry into data and politics by the British Information Commissioner’s Office. Separately, the Electoral Commission is also investigating what role Cambridge Analytica played in the EU referendum. Facebook has sought damage control by announcing that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica from the platform, but the fact that this suspension comes a few years after Facebook knew of the firm’s activities in harvesting data does little to mitigate its reputation. At the end of the day, questions remain about Facebook’s role in influencing electoral results. Interestingly, Cambridge Analytica and the tools it uses seem to be in hot demand in South Asia. The BJP and Congress have both reportedly considered the firm, as has former Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa and Bangladesh’s Awami League. The firm seems to have worked with Indian political parties. On its website, it says: “CA was contracted to undertake an in-depth electorate analysis for the Bihar Assembly Election in 2010. The core challenge was to identify the floating/swing voters for each of the parties and to measure their levels electoral apathy, a result of the poor and unchanging condition of the state after 15 years of incumbent rule. In addition to the research phase, CA were tasked to organise the party base at the village level by creating a communication hierarchy to increase supporter motivation. Our client achieved a landslide victory, with over 90% of total seats targeted by CA being won.” In September 2017, reports emerged that the Indian National Congress was in talks with Cambridge Analytica. “The proposal includes building a “national data infrastructure project” for coordinating team planning, strategy and targeted messaging. It also involves identifying the gaps in data that exists in different databases, and making relevant connections using internal and external sources and data analytics to give meaningful insights,” revealed sources at the time. Big data emerged as a key component of elections in India following the 2014 general elections, which saw the BJP and Narendra Modi emerge victorious. Since then, other parties have followed suit, including the Aam Aadmi Party that relied heavily on big data for the foray into Punjab, and the Congress - Samajwadi alliance that made use of big data in the Uttar Pradesh elections. The increasing use of big data also raises questions regarding right to privacy, and the use of fake news to manipulate voters. Reports have shown fake news being spread deliberately by political parties to build narratives that may influence voting behaviour, with big data now making it even easier to target people. Despite these concerns, firms like Cambridge Analytica and the tools of big data analytics remain in hot demand in politics today … misleading information, fake news and manipulation now central to political discourse and behaviour.


[w491]

[w492]  Facebook rocked by data breach scandal as investigations loom - The Express Tribune  


[w494]Facebook under pressure as U.S., EU urge probes of data practices    - A + A (March 20): Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg faced calls on Monday from U.S. and European lawmakers to explain how a consultancy that worked on President Donald Trump's election campaign gained improper access to data on 50 million Facebook users. Facebook's shares closed down nearly 7 percent, wiping nearly $40 billion off its market value as investors worried that new legislation could damage the company's advertising business. "The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook's data practices, and the picture is not pretty," said Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who has written about Silicon Valley's use of data. Lawmakers in the United States, Britain and Europe have called for investigations into media reports that political analytics firm Cambridge Analytica harvested the private data on more than 50 million Facebook users to develop techniques to support Trump's 2016 presidential election campaign. ( http://reut.rs/2pn8btD ) The scrutiny presents a fresh threat to Facebook's reputation, which is already under attack over Russia's alleged use of Facebook tools to sway U.S. voters with divisive and false news posts before and after the 2016 election. Facebook said on Monday it had hired digital forensics firm Stroz Friedberg to carry out a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica, which had agreed to comply and give the forensics firm complete access to their servers and systems. Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denies the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. But further allegations about the firm's tactics piled up on Monday, as Channel 4 News, a British broadcaster, published video of Cambridge Analytica executives talking about using bribes, former spies and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians. Facebook was already facing calls on Saturday for regulation from U.S. Congress and questions about personal data safeguards after reports in the New York Times and London's Observer over the weekend. On Monday, Republican Senator John Kennedy called on Zuckerberg to testify before Congress, and Democratic Senator Ron Wyden sent a letter to Zuckerberg asking about company policies for sharing user data with third parties. Facebook usually sends lawyers to testify to Congress, or allows trade organizations to represent it and other technology companies in front of lawmakers. Facebook and rivals including Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc's YouTube have taken voluntary steps to restrict possible foreign interference and combat false news, but they have not been forced by law or regulation to make changes and legislation on the issue has stalled. It was not clear whether Republicans who hold congressional committee gavels would announce hearings related to Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. But the lawmaker comments reflected mounting bipartisan concern in Washington over whether internet firms are fair trustees of the massive amounts of user data they collect. Some technology lobbyists have begun to quietly acknowledge the era of a hands-off approach to Silicon Valley from U.S. policymakers may be fading. On Monday, the Senate was expected to move forward with a bill that would chip away at the internet industry’s legal shield, a decades-old law known as Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, with a bill intended to address online sex trafficking. The measure has already passed the House and is expected to soon become law. Facebook said on Friday it had learned in 2015 that a Cambridge University psychology professor lied to the company and violated its policies by passing data to Cambridge Analytica from a psychology testing app he had built. Facebook said it suspended the firms and researchers involved. It also said the data had been misused but not stolen, because users gave permission. Facebook shares fell 6.8 percent to $172.56, dragging the S&P; 500 technology sector down 2.1 percent and broadly weighing on U.S. equities. Fears of increased regulation also weighed on shares of Twitter, Google parent Alphabet and Snapchat parent Snap Inc . "(Tech companies) are going to get a lot more scrutiny over what data they are collecting and how they are using it," said Shawn Cruz, senior trading specialist at TD Ameritrade in Chicago. 'VERY CONCERNING' European officials, who have been more willing to regulate Silicon Valley companies than their U.S. counterparts, were especially strident in criticism of Facebook. The revelations about Cambridge Analytica were "horrifying, if confirmed," said EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova. "We don't want this in the EU and will take all possible legal measures" including stricter rules under the bloc's General Data Protection Regulation that takes effect in May, she said. A spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the allegations were "clearly very concerning." Britain's Information Commissioner's Office said it would consider the potential new evidence as part of its separate civil and criminal probe into whether Facebook user data had been abused in British elections. The head of the European Parliament said EU lawmakers will investigate possible data misuse, calling the allegations an unacceptable violation of citizens' privacy rights.


[w496]

[w497] Zuckerberg should ask one of his board members — Netflix's Reed Hastings — how to write an apology Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg hasn't yet found the words needed to calm the market after the disastrous Cambridge Analytica story that broke Friday continues to pick up steam. Facebook shares plunged 6.8 percent on Monday and another 1.5 percent in extended trading. This comes after a weekend when the company and independent news reports said that a psychology quiz app collected data about 50 million Facebook users under false pretenses, then shared that data with the political analytics firm without user permission. Facebook execs took to Twitter in the wake of the reports to deny that this was a security breach , and Cambridge has said that it deleted that data , contrary to the news reports. Meanwhile, Zuckerberg, who created the social network 14 years ago from his Harvard dorm room, has stayed quiet. If Zuckerberg really wanted help in crafting a soothing apology, he could just look across the boardroom table. There he'd find Netflix CEO Reed Hastings , who seven years ago made a mistake so catastrophic that it almost sank the company he started in 1997. In 2011, Netflix raised prices and announced it was splitting its DVD business into a separate company. Then Hastings apologized in a letter that began: "I messed up. I owe everyone an explanation." That alone wasn't enough to spark a rally, as Netflix continued to reckon with a deteriorating subscriber outlook. In fact, the stock sank more than 50 percent from there before bottoming about a year later. Along the way Hastings had to kill a hastily unveiled plan to rename the DVD business "Qwikster." But since mid-2012, Netflix has represented one of the best investments of the decade, multiplying 40-fold on the way to a $136 billion market capitalization. Once roundly criticized for abruptly deciding to separate the DVD and streaming units, Hastings is now lauded for his foresight in recognizing that the physical distribution business was headed for the dustbin. Zuckerberg is in a different kind of crisis. His company had already been embarrassed by revelations that Russian-backed groups infiltrated the site and distributed propaganda that was seen by about 126 million Americans ahead of the 2016 presidential election . It had already been called to testify multiple times in front of Congress about its role in the spread of fake news. Now there's the suspension of Cambridge Analytica , which worked on behalf of Donald Trump's campaign, for allegedly misusing data of 50 million people to target them with political ads based on personal information. Asking forgiveness It's not as if Zuckerberg doesn't know how to apologize. On the very subject of abuse of Facebook's platform, Zuckerberg started the Yom Kippur holiday, the Jewish day of atonement, with a public comment on Sept. 30. "For those I hurt this year, I ask forgiveness and I will try to be better," Zuckerberg wrote on his Facebook wall. "For the ways my work was used to divide people rather than bring us together, I ask forgiveness." By the looks of it, the Cambridge Analytica story is only beginning to unfold. Many of Zuckerberg's lieutenants have weighed in, including Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos , who is reportedly leaving the company. Carolyn Everson, the company's vice president of marketing, said at a conference on Monday that, "If the allegations are true, this is an incredible violation of everything that we stand for." Hastings alone surely doesn't have all the answers. But it would seem that his experience with existential crises would be particularly valuable right about now. 


[w498]  Pressure mounts on Zuckerberg to face data breach concernsPressure mounts on Zuckerberg to face data breach concerns  19 March 2018  Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg is facing intensified calls to appear in person at investigations into the social network's conduct. His company has been accused of failing to properly inform users that their profile information may have been obtained and kept by Cambridge Analytica, a data firm widely-credited with helping Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. Facebook said on Friday it had blocked Cambridge Analytica from Facebook while it investigated claims the London-based firm did not, as promised, delete data that was allegedly obtained using methods that were in violation of Facebook's policies. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook deny any wrongdoing. Despite pledging that in 2018 he would "fix" his company, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has managed to avoid engaging with the site's growing number of critics - instead sending lawyers or policy bosses to various committee hearings. The 33-year-old's recent remarks on some of Facebook's controversies have been communicated in the relatively safe space of a blog post or video message published on his Facebook page. Facebook and Trump data firm 'misled' MPs US to investigate Trump campaign data firm Tech Tent: Facebook and Google take action With the building row over how Facebook data may have been used to fuel highly-targeted political propaganda , several influential figures on both side of the Atlantic this weekend said it was time for Mr Zuckerberg to step up to publicly defend - or at least justify - his creation. Some called for investigations into whether Mr Zuckerberg's company may have violated laws governing disclosure of a data breach - and also rules on properly obtaining a user's consent to collect personal information. "This is a major breach that must be investigated," demanded Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. "It’s clear these platforms can’t police themselves. I've called for more transparency and accountability for online political ads. They say 'trust us'." She added: "Mark Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary." 'High on themselves' That sentiment was backed by Adam Schiff, the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, which is already investigating social media manipulation in the run up to the 2016 presidential election. "I think it would be beneficial to have him come testify before the appropriate oversight committees," he told the Washington Post. "And not just Mark but the other CEOs of the other major companies that operate in this space." On Sunday morning TV, Florida senator and former presidential hopeful Marco Rubio told NBC's Meet the Press he felt technology companies acted as if they are "above" regulations. Eight reasons Facebook has peaked Social networks 'too slow' on changes Facebook broke German privacy laws "Their growth has been a lot faster than perhaps their ability to mature institutionally from within on some of these challenges that they're facing," he said. "I think another part about it is sometimes these companies grow so fast and get so much good press, they get up high on themselves that they start to think that perhaps they're above sort of the rules that apply to everybody else." Skip Twitter post by @alexstamos There are a lot of big problems that the big tech companies need to be better at fixing. We have collectively been too optimistic about what we build and our impact on the world. Believe it or not, a lot of the people at these companies, from the interns to the CEOs, agree. — Alex Stamos (@alexstamos) March 17, 2018 Report End of Twitter post by @alexstamos The man in charge of Britain's investigation into Russian meddling in the democratic process said he too wanted to press Mr Zuckerberg on the issue. "I will be writing to Mark Zuckerberg asking that either he or another senior executive from the company appear to give evidence in front of the committee as part our inquiry," said Damian Collins MP. "It is not acceptable that they have previously sent witnesses who seek to avoid asking difficult questions by claiming not to know the answers." Media playback is unsupported on your device In the age of big data, is our democracy open to manipulation? Mr Collins also said he would be recalling Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix to parliament to answer more questions. "It seems clear that he has deliberately misled the committee and parliament," Mr. Collins said. Cambridge Analytica and Mr Nix have denied any wrongdoing. Deleted tweets In an attempt to get out ahead of a story in the New York Times and Observer newspapers, Facebook made an announcement late Friday night, California time, that it was blocking Cambridge Analytica from using Facebook while it investigated claims the inappropriately-obtained data had not been deleted as promised. This was followed by remarks from Alex Stamos, the firm's chief security officer, who wrote and then deleted a series of tweets. He objected to the word "breach" being used to describe how data from as many as 50 million peoples' user profiles may have been obtained without explicit user consent. "I have deleted my tweets on Cambridge Analytica," he later wrote. "Not because they were factually incorrect but because I should have done a better job weighing in." Christopher Wylie, a Canadian data analytics expert who worked with Cambridge Analytica, revealed how it and its partners harvested data belonging to mostly US voters. Over the weekend, he announced he had been suspended from Facebook. Skip Twitter post by @chrisinsilico Suspended by @facebook . For blowing the whistle. On something they have known privately for 2 years. pic.twitter.com/iSu6VwqUdG — Christopher Wylie (@chrisinsilico) March 18, 2018 Report End of Twitter post by @chrisinsilico On top of its initial statement, Facebook on Sunday said it was conducting a "comprehensive internal and external review" into whether the data, gathered via an app created by Global Science Research (GSR), still existed. GSR was set up by University of Cambridge associate professor Aleksandr Kogan and his colleague Joseph Chancellor. According to the Guardian, Mr Chancellor was given a job at Facebook as a researcher just months after GSR carried out the data-gathering exercise that Facebook now says violated its policies. Facebook has not commented on the calls for Mr Zuckerberg to appear in front of the several committees expressing a desire to hear from him. But one analyst warned that this controversy is a direct threat to Facebook's business model, and therefore Mr Zuckerberg will be expected to put investors at ease, sooner rather than later. "This has potential to grow into something a lot more onerous," said Daniel Ives from GBH Insight. "So he has to get ahead of this storm before it turns into a hurricane."  


[w499]  UK data firm boss suspended over Facebook controversy Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix leaving its offices in central London  The board of Cambridge Analytica has announced that it has suspended chief executive Alexander Nix with immediate effect over claims it gathered Facebook users’ data without their permission. In a statement, the board said Mr Nix's recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 News and "other allegations" did not represent "the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which it views this violation". Last night, Channel 4 News screened footage of Mr Nix apparently offering to entrap the political rival of a reporter posing as a wealthy Sri Lankan saying they could "send some girls around" to his home. He also suggested making the rival candidate an offer "that's too good to be true" and then putting the video recording on the internet as "evidence of corruption". In its statement this evening, Cambridge Analytica said that an independent investigation is under way to review the comments and allegations,  It said: "We have asked Julian Malins QC to lead this investigation, the findings of which the board will share publicly in due course". The statement said the board will be monitoring the situation, working closely with newly-appointed acting CEO Dr Alexander Tayler, "to ensure that Cambridge Analytica, in all of its operations, represents the firm's values and delivers the highest-quality service to its clients." Cambridge Analytica say @Channel4News secret filming is reason it has suspended chief executive Alexander Nix. Watch the three reports here, as our investigations continue. #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered https://t.co/npYYddfkZY — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Read More: What is Cambridge Analytica? Zuckerberg called before UK inquiry into fake news Earlier, the British parliamentary committee investigating fake news announced that it was summoning Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence, accusing the company of giving "misleading" answers at a previous hearing on the issue. This evening, Facebook said that the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica. Last night, Mr Nix told BBC's Newsnight that the company had been the victim of a "co-ordinated attack by the media" because of its involvement in Donald Trump's presidential campaign.  "We see this as a coordinated attack by the media that's been going on for very, very many months in order to damage the company that had some involvement with the election of Donald Trump." Mr Nix said he had a "huge amount of regrets about the fact that we, maybe, undertook this meeting and spoke with a certain amount of hyperbole about some of the things that we do". He added: "I have some regrets about the way that I have represented what the company does. I certainly feel that the air of mystery and negativity that surrounds the work of Cambridge is misfounded and, as the CEO, I take responsibility for that." Meanwhile, the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner (ODPC) in Ireland said the micro-targeting of social media users with political advertisements and sponsored stories remains an ongoing issue. The ODPC said it will follow up with Facebook Ireland in relation to what forms of active oversight of app developers and third parties that use its platform are in place, with a view to ensuring it is effective. The ODPC said the loophole that enabled Facebook user data to be harvested by third parties was resolved in May 2014 when access to friends' data was restricted by a platform upgrade. It said the changes followed a 2012 recommendation by it to Facebook on foot of an audit a year earlier and subsequent re-audit. The ODPC also said the issue of purported misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica and other related firms is incorporated in the investigation of the UK Information Commissioner's Office of political influencing. "In the absence of laws specifically regulating such political targeting online, the Irish DPC intends to issue guidance to users in terms of how they can trace why they are receiving certain advertisements and stories on social media, how they can mute or turn off receiving advertisements from those sources and how they can amend their ad preferences to control the types of ads they are served," the OPDC said.      


[w500] Facebook drags technology companies down as stocks slide Facebook drags technology companies down as stocks slide Monday, March 19, 2018 - 10:39 PM Facebook plunged to its worst loss in four years on Monday and led a rout in technology companies. The social media company's stock fell following reports that a data mining firm working for the Trump campaign improperly obtained data on 50 million Facebook users. The drop came after the New York Times and the Guardian reported that the firm, Cambridge Analytica, tapped the profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission. Legislators in the US and Europe criticised Facebook and said they want more information about what happened. Investors wondered if companies like Facebook and Alphabet will face tighter regulation as a result. Daniel Ives, chief strategy officer and head of technology research for GBH Insights, said Facebook is in a crisis and will have to work hard to reassure users, investors and governments. "This is a defining moment for them," he said. "It either becomes a blip on the radar and it helps the platform mature... or it becomes the start of something broader." Elsewhere, the British pound rose and European stocks slumped after Britain and the European Union said they were getting closer to a deal that will complete Britain's departure from the EU in March 2019. The S&P; 500 index sank 39.09 points, or 1.4%, to 2,712.92. The benchmark index took its biggest loss since February 8 when it tumbled almost 4% as investors worried that rising inflation would slow the progress of the market and the US economy. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 335.60 points, or 1.3%, to 24,610.91. During the day it fell as much as 493 points. The Nasdaq composite gave up 137.74 points, or 1.8%, to 7,344.24, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks declined 15.49 points, or 1%, to 1,570.56. Larger technology companies including Apple and Microsoft fared worse than smaller ones. Another market favourite, Amazon, also dropped, and health care stocks fell more than the rest of the market. The pound rose to 1.4050 dollars from 1.3938. The FTSE 100 index fell 1.7%, Germany's Dax fell 1.4%, and France's Cac-40 was 1.1% lower. Facebook said late on Friday that it had suspended Cambridge Analytica and its parent company. It said Cambridge obtained data from 270,000 people who downloaded a purported research app that was described as a personality test. A former employee said Cambridge got data from tens of millions of other users who were friends with the people who downloaded the app. Facebook first learned of the breach more than two years ago but had not disclosed it. Facebook also said it recently received a report that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it obtained from Facebook, something Facebook said the company claimed to have done. Senator Amy Klobuchar said Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg should testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee while legislators in Britain and the European Union also called for inquiries. On Monday Facebook said it had hired an outside firm to audit Cambridge. Its stock sank 12.53 dollars, or 6.8%, to 172.56 dollars, its biggest one-day loss since March 2014. Mr Ives said Wall Street is more concerned about the latest situation than it was about issues like Facebook's platform spreading fake news, because Cambridge reportedly got access to the personal data of a large number of users, and the backlash suggests Facebook may face more regulation and could lose users, advertisers or advertising revenue. He estimated that 5 billion dollars in annual revenue for Facebook might be at risk and said the situation could create problems for other tech companies, especially Twitter and Alphabet's YouTube unit. Alphabet lost 34.35 dollars, or 3%, to 1,100.07 dollars. Twenty-nine of the 30 Dow stocks finished the day with losses. The only exception was plane maker Boeing. Bond prices gave up an early gain. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note remained at 2.85%. Benchmark US crude fell 28 cents to 62.06 dollars a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost 16 cents to 66.05 dollars per barrel in London. Wholesale petrol lost 2 cents to 1.92 dollars a gallon, heating oil remained at 1.91 dollars a gallon, and natural gas fell 4 cents to 2.65 dollars per 1,000 cubic feet. Gold added 5.50 dollars to 1,317.80 an ounce, silver rose 5 cents to 16.33 dollars an ounce, and copper lost 2 cents to 3.08 dollars a pound. 

[w501] Cambridge Analytica executives filmed allegedly touting use of bribery, entrapment to swing elections around the world


[w502] Facebook: Cambridge Analytica’s deceptive pitching tacticsCambridge Analytica’s pitching tactics caught on video A FIRM that worked on the Trump campaign has been caught on camera bragging about its dirty political tactics. Video Image Cambridge Analytica executives brag about dirty political tactics Chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix brags about the tactics used to trick an opposition leader during political campaigns.  Cambridge Analytica executives Mark Turnbull and Alexander Nix are seen discussing the firm’s work in the undercover footage. Picture: Channel 4 UNDERCOVER footage has captured executives from political data firm Cambridge Analytica discussing how it could potentially entrap an opposition leader. Reporters from British broadcaster Channel 4 News met with the firm’s executives, posing as potential clients seeking to change the outcome of the Sri Lankan election. In the hidden camera footage, which aired in the UK and the US overnight, the executives of the company can be seen pitching their firm and the work they do. Reporters captured the company’s chief executive Alexander Nix discussing how the Sri Lankan opposition leader could potentially become entrapped. Mr Nix also revealed how the company could record someone accepting a bribe or could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house”. He also said it’s easy to spread information about politicians saying it just has to be believed and not necessarily true. The reporters also recorded Cambridge Analytica Political Global managing director Mark Turnbull discussing his relationships with former British spies who now work at private companies. Cambridge Analytica, which worked on Donald Trump’s election campaign, has already come under fire this week over allegations that it tapped the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million people without their permission. As revealed by The Guardian and The New York Times , the data may have been used to influence the outcome of the United States election in 2016. The firm, which is owned by hedge fund billionaire and Trump supporter Robert Mercer, says it can analyse consumer data — including social media and its own polling — in order to target people with marketing material. The company has said the footage doesn’t represent the work it does. Picture: Channel 4 ‘GROSS MISREPSENTATION’ In a statement, Cambridge Analytica slammed the hidden footage report which is claimed was scripted and edited to “grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how it does business”. Tonight’s @Channel4News story gives a highly misleading picture of the company and what we do. https://t.co/XlJEM9ujK3 — Cambridge Analytica (@CamAnalytica) March 19, 2018 The statement denies “any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” It goes on to say Cambridge Analytica held a series of meetings to discuss philanthropic, infrastructure and political projects in Sri Lanka. It also said an executive set out the principles which govern its work and told the reporter: “We’re not in the business of fake news, we’re not in the business of lying, making stuff up and we’re not in the business of entrapment ... There are companies that do this but to me that crosses a line.” Mr Nix did however acknowledge he misjudged the situation and was only playing along with the ‘ludicrous’ conversation. “In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios. I am aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honey-traps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose,” he said. “I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner.” Cambridge Analytica is at the heart of a scandal over the use of personal data collected on Facebook. Picture: Loic Venance/AFP FACEBOOK FURY The footage comes as Britain’s information commissioner said she will apply for a warrant to access the servers of Cambridge Analytica, over the mined Facebook data. Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said in a statement that she planned to seek the warrant because the British firm had been “uncooperative” in her investigation of whether Facebook data was “illegally acquired and used”. Data from the Federal Election Commission shows that Cambridge Analytica earned $US5.9 million ($A7.6 million) in 2016 from the campaign to elect Mr Trump for president. Cambridge also earned $US5.8 million ($A7.5 million) from Senator Ted Cruz’s failed presidential campaign. In total, Cambridge Analytica earned more than $US16 million ($A21 million) from 2014 to 2016 from nearly 20 Republican candidates and political committees. Facebook suspended the company from using its services on Friday, hours before the reports came out. The tech giant first learned of the breach more than two years ago, but hasn’t disclosed it until now. Meanwhile Cambridge Analytics former director of data research Christopher Wylie said the firm secured personal data in order to learn about individuals and then used it to create an information cocoon to change their perceptions. He said the firm used “informational dominance” to capture every channel of information around a person to surround them with curated information, changing their perception of what’s actually happening. In an interview on Monday on NBC’s Today , Mr Wylie said Cambridge Analytica aimed to “explore mental vulnerabilities of people”. While he said he doesn’t know to what extent Mr Trump’s campaign used the techniques, he said the President’s former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was meeting with Cambridge Analytica in 2015, before he even announced his run for office. Update: The board of Cambridge Analytica says it has suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation of his actions. The board cited comments Nix made to an undercover reporter for Britain’s Channel 4 News and other allegations of wrongdoing for its action Tuesday. It says his comments “do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view the violation.” The board says in an announcement posted on the data-mining company’s website that the suspension is effective immediately. 


[w503] 

[w504] Cambridge Analytica techniques have 'a lot of cross over' with advertisingCambridge Analytica is the small data crunching firm that uses psychometric modelling to map behaviours and target messages. Over the weekend a whistleblower blew the lid on how it harvested up to 60 million Facebook profiles to help Donald Trump with the US election . The firm also works with brands and is eyeing an Australian office. AdNews recently spent five minutes with Cambridge Analytica head of product Matt Oczkowski – Trump’s data man – to see how the machine can be applied to marketing. Cambridge Analytica’s impact on Trump’s presidential campaign is a terrifying affirmation of the power data can have on results, and a fascinating case study. What the company achieved in five short months after being appointed by Trump is nothing short of astonishing, but the interesting thing for this industry is what it could do for brands and marketers, and where regulators should draw a line. AdNews: The impact on the Trump campaign was huge. What could a similar approach offer brands? Matt Oczkowski (MO): There is a lot of crossover. Whether you want to vote for Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton, or whether you want to buy cereal or Coca-Cola, understanding the behavioural motivations behind individuals is key. Presidential campaigns are well-funded but a lot of the lessons are universal. The great thing about [election] campaigns is that they force innovation. AdNews: What about publishers? MO: I’ve been most excited about the publisher side as it gives you access to not only people but what content they’re reading. Publishers are the perfect target for what we do. The problem is many publishers are addicted to display advertising. It’s a massive source of revenue but it’s decreasing. I want to work with publishers to adapt new models that get them away from problematic advertising units. The long-term vision is using the quality and value of data [to build] a better user experience because the consumer market has moved to a place where people are sick of annoying advertising. AdNews: Data and targeting is often still reduced to simple demographics. Why is there a gap between what brands do and what’s possible? MO: We’ve gotten really good at figuring out who to talk to but we haven’t got good at what to say to those people. I could slice you thousands of segments but there’s no agency in the world that would be able to produce that much unique creative. Demographics aren’t the enemy but things like age and gender alone don’t tell the whole story about a person. We need to cluster people up in ways that get beyond demographics and bringing in more data points and understand people’s networks, communities, and how all that ties in. AdNews: Trump is controversial. Can you rationalise your involvement in light of the impact on the political climate and economy? MO: There’s a lot of answers for that. A lot of engineers and data scientists that work for us took 50% pay cuts to work on the campaign and work harder than they did previously. You’re not doing this if you don’t believe in it. There is a lot of dislike for Mr. Trump and I get that, but just as many people or more disliked Hillary Clinton. I’ve exclusively worked for Republicans my whole life, the reason I got involved was because I’m passionate. I understand the impact these things have on the rest of the world but I’m not a political guy or a policy maker, I’m a technologist. Typically, I try to keep my beliefs away from the candidates I work for. AdNews: A lot has been written about Cambridge Analytica and some of the tactics have been called snake oil – is that fair? MO: My answer is always that good candidates with good methods will win elections. Data science does not win elections, data science helps with the margins. A lot of things that are said are relatively untrue. What we did was help define his overall message, figure out who to talk to and what to say to those people. What we’re doing is applying proven science. What we do with psych and the OCEAN5 [scale of personality] is the same thing IBM is doing with Watson, so if you call what we do snake oil then you are calling the entire scientific industry snake oil. People say ‘you’re the reason Trump won’, but we’re just part of the team that helped. Mr Trump won the election.


[w505] 

[w506] 

[w507]  How Cambridge Analytica harvested Facebook data, triggering new outcry How Cambridge Analytica harvested Facebook data, triggering new outcry The New York Times report that a political firm hired by the Trump campaign acquired access to private data on millions of Facebook users has sparked new questions about how the social media giant protects user information. Who collected all that data? Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users. The firm offered tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behaviour. The idea was to map personality traits based on what people had liked on Facebook. Photo: Wayne Taylor Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen K. Bannon, a former adviser to the president who became an early board member and gave the firm its name. It has pitched its services to potential clients ranging from Mastercard and the New York Yankees to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. What kind of information was collected, and how was it acquired? Advertisement The data, a portion of which was viewed by The New York Times , included details on users' identities, friend networks and "likes." The idea was to map personality traits based on what people had liked on Facebook, and then use that information to target audiences with digital ads. Researchers in 2014 asked users to take a personality survey and download an app, which scraped some private information from their profiles and those of their friends, activity that Facebook permitted at the time and has since banned. The technique had been developed at Cambridge University's Psychometrics Center. The centre declined to work with Cambridge Analytica, but Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American psychology professor at the university, was willing. Kogan built his own app and in June 2014 began harvesting data for Cambridge Analytica. He ultimately provided more than 50 million raw profiles to the firm, said Christopher Wylie, a data expert who oversaw Cambridge Analytica's data harvesting. Only about 270,000 users — those who participated in the survey — had consented to having their data harvested, though they were all told that it was being used for academic use. Facebook said no passwords or "sensitive pieces of information" had been taken, though information about a user's location was available to Cambridge. Replay So was Facebook hacked? Facebook in recent days has insisted that what Cambridge did was not a data breach, because it routinely allows researchers to have access to user data for academic purposes — and users consent to this access when they create a Facebook account. Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen Bannon, pictured. Photo: AP But Facebook prohibits this kind of data to be sold or transferred "to any ad network, data broker or other advertising or monetisation-related service." It says that was exactly what Kogan did, in providing the information to a political consulting firm. Kogan declined to provide The Times with details of what had happened, citing nondisclosure agreements with Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica officials, after denying that they had obtained or used Facebook data, changed their story last week. In a statement to The Times, the company acknowledged that it had acquired the data, though it blamed Kogan for violating Facebook's rules and said it had deleted the information as soon as it learned of the problem two years ago. But the data, or at least copies, may still exist. The Times was recently able to view a set of raw data from the profiles Cambridge Analytica obtained. Replay What is Facebook doing in response? The company issued a statement Friday saying that in 2015, when it learned that Kogan's research had been turned over to Cambridge Analytica, violating its terms of service, it removed Kogan's app from the site. It said it had demanded and received certification that the data had been destroyed. Facebook also said: "Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted. We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. If true, this is another unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments they made. We are suspending SCL/Cambridge Analytica, Wylie and Kogan from Facebook, pending further information." In a further step, Facebook said Monday that it had hired a digital forensics firm "to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists." It said Cambridge Analytica had agreed to the review and that Kogan had given a verbal commitment, while Wylie "thus far has declined." What are others saying? Facebook, already facing deep questions over the use of its platform by those seeking to spread Russian propaganda and fake news, is facing a renewed backlash after the news about Cambridge Analytica. Investors have not been pleased, sending shares of the company down about 7 per cent Monday. — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has pressed Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, to appear before the panel to explain what the social network knew about the misuse of its data "to target political advertising and manipulate voters." — The attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey, announced on Saturday that her office was opening an investigation. "Massachusetts residents deserve answers immediately from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica," she said in a Twitter post. Facebook's lack of disclosure on the harvesting of data could violate privacy laws in Britain and several states. — Damian Collins, a Conservative lawmaker in Britain who is leading a parliamentary inquiry into fake news and Russian meddling in the country's referendum on leaving the European Union, said this weekend that he, too, would call on Zuckerberg or another top executive to testify. T


[w508] Big problem Facebook can’t fix  	EVER paranoid that you're being "watched" on social media? The latest drama surrounding Facebook probably won't help lessen those feelings. 	The social media giant is currently embroiled in the largest data scandal of its history, following allegations that Cambridge Analytica tapped the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million people without their permission. 	The story was broken by The Guardian over the weekend, who reported the data may have been used to influence the outcome of the United States election in 2016. WHAT IS CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA? 	Cambridge Analytica is a British data analysis firm that offers services to businesses and groups wanting to "change audience behaviour". 	The firm, which is owned by hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, says it can analyse consumer data - including social media and its own polling - in order to target people with marketing material. 	It worked for both President Donald Trump's election campaign, and the campaign of Republican Senator Ted Cruz. OK, SO WHAT'S THE SCANDAL? 	Over the weekend, The Guardian revealed that the personal data of 50 million Facebook profiles was illegally harvested by Cambridge Analytica. 	It all started in 2015, when a Cambridge psychology professor named Aleksandr Kogan created an app called "thisisyourdigitallife". 	The app was a personality quiz, described by Dr Kogan as "a research app used by psychologists". 	His company Global Science Research had a deal to share this information with Cambridge Analytica. 	Around 270,000 Facebook users signed up, and were paid to take personality tests which would be stored by the company.  	But here's where things get dicey: the app also collected the information of the users' Facebook friends, who - unless they had already signed up to the app - did not consent to having their personal information stored. 	This was revealed by Christopher Wylie, a whistleblower and analytics expert who worked with Cambridge Analytica. 	"We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles," he told The Guardian . "And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on." 	The app relied on its users consenting on behalf of all their friends - or at least, those whose privacy settings were to set to allow sharing with a friend's app - to receive "more limited information". 	The information was reportedly used to map out the behaviour of voters in the lead-up to the 2016 election, as well as the Brexit campaign earlier that year. 	The reports suggest over 50 million people had their data harvested without their permission. HOW DID THE FIRM RESPOND? 	Cambridge Analytica denied any wrongdoing, claiming it fully complied with Facebook's term of service. 	The firm claimed allegations that it obtained and used Facebook data were false, and said none of it was used in the 2016 presidential election. 	The Trump campaign has also denied any wrongdoing, saying it never used Cambridge Analytica's data. "The campaign used the RNC for its voter data and not Cambridge Analytica," it said in a statement. 	The app was removed by Facebook in 2015, and the firm reportedly assured the social media network that it had deleted all the data. 	But according to the New York Times , copies of the data are still available online.  WHY IS FACEBOOK COPPING CRITICISM? 	Facebook has come under pressure to be more transparent about how its users' data is or potentially can be used by third-party companies. 	Critics say the scandal highlights its ongoing problem to grasp how its platform is handled by others. 	The social media giant had known since 2015 that the information had been harvested but did nothing to protect its users, according to reports. 	The network attempted to suggest it was deceived, and that those involved shouldn't have lied about deleting the data. 	In a series of now-deleted tweets, Facebook's chief security officer Alex Stamos said Dr Kogan "lied to those users and he lied to Facebook about what he was using the data for". 	  	  	In a blog post, Facebook said: "Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted. We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. If true, this is another unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments they made."  	Politicians and critics from both the US and Britain slammed the network following the reports. 	British legislator Damian Collins accused Facebook of misleading officials by downplaying the risk of users' data being shared without their consent. 	He said Facebook has "consistently understated" the risk of data leaks and gave misleading answers to the committee. 	"Someone has to take responsibility for this," he told the Associated Press. "It's time for Mark Zuckerberg to stop hiding behind his Facebook page." 	US Senator Jeff Flake told CNN: "This is a big deal, when you have that amount of data. And the privacy violations there are significant. So, the question is, who knew it? When did they know it? How long did this go on? And what happens to that data now?" 	At the same time, the social media network faces ongoing criticism over the spread of Russian propaganda, with an investigation still underway to determine whether "fake news" and Russian hacking influenced the 2016 election outcome.

[w509] 

[w511]  The Cambridge Analytica Facebook data breach explained The Cambridge Analytica Facebook data breach explained  0:00    /  Share    Ever taken one of those cute personality tests on Facebook? Maybe think twice.  Updated 19 March By   What happened? Data firm Cambridge Analytica is fast becoming a house-hold name after two media outlets revealed its involvement in Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Cambridge Analytica has been accused of harvesting the data of some 50 million Facebook users' profiles without their knowledge to help it design software to predict and influence voters’ choices at the ballot box. Just hours before the Observer and the New York Times broke the story over the weekend, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform, pending an investigation, in an apparent pre-emptive strike to limit the damage to its own brand. The tech giant has announced a review into the potential privacy breach as it comes under intense scrutiny by US and British politcians. Cambridge Analytica, meanwhile, has said it deleted the data before it even started work on the Trump campaign. Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix will now face another grilling by British politicians, while Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been summoned to speak to a UK House of Commons committee about the misuse of data.   Why do we care? Well, because so many of us are on Facebook, which has built its entire massive business on its users’ data - their likes, networks, locations and browsing histories. Facebook is free to you, because you are not the customer but the product. Your data, aggregated with millions of others', is an incredibly powerful tool for anyone who wants to convince a lot of people to vote for someone or buy something. We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. Christopher Wylie In the words of Christopher Wylie, the Canadian data analytics specialist and whistle-blower that created the system and now, deeply troubled by its consequences, has exposed it: “I built Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare mindf--k tool.” Steve Bannon was the driving force behind the election of Donald Trump, one of the most disruptive and controversial presidents in US history. "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis that the entire company was built on," Wylie told the Observer. This appears to be the starkest example yet of how social media is being used for political purposes at the highest levels.  RELATED ITEMS Facebook suspends Trump campaign data firm Cambridge Analytica How did it work? The New York Times reports that Cambridge Analytica spent US$800,000 in 2014 to get Russian-American academic Aleksandr Kogan to build an app to harvest the data of Facebook users. He created a personality quiz called "thisisyourdigitallife" and Cambridge Analytica paid for people to take it. 270,000-odd people downloaded the app.  According to Facebook, users consent for their information to be used simply by downloading the app, but media reports said it also extracted the personal data of each of those users’ friends, unbeknown to them. Aleksandr Kogan then passed all the data his app collected on some 50 million users onto Cambridge Analytica and other companies. Of those accounts, sufficient data had been gleaned to create psychographic profiles on 30 million of them, which it used to understand and influence voter behaviour for its clients. Facebook said it removed the app in 2015 when it learned of the violations, and told everyone who received the misappropriated data to destroy it. But it has now emerged from several sources speaking to several media outlets that the data had not been deleted. Facebook has since pushed back a bit, quibbling that it was “not a data breach.” The tech giant's deputy general counsel Paul Grewal said in the company’s statement  that all misused data was “knowingly provided” by users, and did not extend to those users’ Facebook friends - or at least not to those who had privacy settings turned on. But Facebook has suspended it anyway because it violated Facebook’s rules when the data was handed to a third party - Cambridge Analytica - for targeting political ads. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been summoned over data breach. AFP Karen Bleier Who is Cambridge Analytica? Set up in London in 2013, Cambridge Analytica purports to help its clients “change audience behaviour” using consumer data from social media and polling combined with behavioural science. Its right wing founder Alexander Nix told the website Contagious that it was set up “to address the vacuum in the US Republican political market” after Mitt Romney’s 2012 defeat. Former Cambridge Analytica insider Chris Wylie outlined the firm's strategy to ABC America.  "It is sort of like the digital shadow of yourself. So, when you think about what you do on social media, you curate your identity." "Cambridge Analytica will try to pick at whatever mental weakness or vulnerability that we think you have and try to warp your perception of what's real around you," he said. The firm was bankrolled to the tune of $15 million by US hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, a major Republican donor. At the time, Steve Bannon - a top Trump adviser until he was fired last summer - was a director of the company. RELATED ITEMS Republicans slam Facebook for allowing Cambridge Analytica to take users' data Following the suspension on the weekend, the company said it was in touch with Facebook "in order to resolve this matter as quickly as possible ," denying it violated Facebook’s terms of service. It blamed the misuse of data on Kogan and said it has since deleted all the data it received from a company he founded, Global Science Research. What is the Trump connection? Donald Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner had boasted that he brought in Cambridge Analytica to help win the 2016 US Presidential election for Mr Trump, according to the New York Times. Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating possible Trump campaign collusion with Russia during the election, thinks the company could be a key link in his case. The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Mr Mueller has ordered Cambridge Analytica to turn over internal documents. RELATED ITEMS US probe looking at Kushner's foreign business contacts: report The company has sought quickly to hose down the Trump connection, claiming that none of the data obtained through Kogan and Global Science Research “was used by Cambridge Analytica as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign.” But Robert Mueller is not expected to let this one go. What does this mean for Facebook users? The compromise of 50 million users’ data raises a lot of questions over whether, as Facebook said in its statement: “protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do.” The company was already under fire over the way its news feed was effectively gamed to spread deliberate misinformation deployed by Russian interests to sway voters during the 2016 US election campaign - another huge blow to its reputation. Facebook has not informed users whose data was compromised of the fact. Going forward, even if third party apps obtain users' data legitimately according to Facebook's own rules, they may then be acquired by other companies who use it, in breach of the rules.  So the social media platform’s 2.2 billion users may well be wondering how safe their data is, and whether the company has undertaken any systemic action to stop misuse when it has clearly known about this problem for a few years, but only acted on Friday ahead of media exposure.  What happens now? In the UK, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are already the subject of an inquiry into data and politics by the Information Commissioner’s Office and another one by the Electoral Commission to investigate what role it played in the Brexit referendum (the company has said it did not work for the ‘Leave’ vote, but this has been contradicted by the co-founder of Leave.EU, Arron Banks). In the US, Democrat senators called for new regulations on Facebook over the weekend, and some Republican senators questioned the company’s actions. But it was unclear whether the Republican-controlled Congress would act. Facebook said it was conducting a thorough internal review. Australian connection The data mining firm has been trying to expand its operations overseas, including in Australia. Cambridge Analytica is registered in Australia at a property in the Sydney suburb of Maroubra; however, the man who registered the firm said it has never conducted any business here.  But in April 2017, Senator Dan Tehan was among a group of Liberal politicians who met an executive from Cambridge Analytica. In a brief statement issued on Monday, the Liberal Party said it was not using the firm. 0:00 Senator Don Farrell grills Mitch Fifield on Australia’s association with Cambridge Analytica  

[w512] 

[w513] The Noisy Fallacies of Cambridge Analytica and Psychographic Targeting The Noisy Fallacies of Psychographic Targeting Cambridge Analytica’s targeting efforts probably didn’t work, but Facebook should be embarrassed anyway. in the deafening media cycle around the story, it’s probably unnecessary to summarize the going Facebook/Cambridge Analytica scandal, but briefly and just in case: Facebook recently announced the suspension of a marketing data company called Cambridge Analytica from its platform after a whistleblower confirmed it had misused ill-gotten Facebook data to construct so-called “psychographic” models and help Trump win the presidency. For the impatient, my fundamental thesis is this: Cambridge Analytica’s data theft and targeting efforts probably didn’t even work, but Facebook should be embarrassed anyhow. For the more patient: What on earth is the sinister-sound “psychographics” about, and how is your Facebook data involved? Antonio García Martínez ( @antoniogm ) is an Ideas contributor for WIRED. Before turning to writing, he dropped out of a doctoral program in physics to work on Goldman Sachs’ credit trading desk, then joined the Silicon Valley startup world, where he founded his own startup (acquired by Twitter in 2011), and finally joined Facebook’s early monetization team, where he headed its targeting efforts. His 2016 memoir, Chaos Monkeys , was a New York Times best seller and NPR Best Book of the Year, and his writing has appeared in Vanity Fair, The Guardian, and The Washington Post . He splits his time between a sailboat on the SF Bay and a yurt in Washington’s San Juan Islands. The awkward portmanteau coinage of “psychographics” is meant to be a riff on the “demographics” (i.e. age, gender, geography), which are the usual parameters of how marketers talk about advertising audiences. The difference here is that the marketer attempts to capture some essential psychological state, or some particular combination of values and lifestyle, that imply a proclivity for the product in question. If it sounds nebulous, not to say somewhat astrological, it is. As a great example of the type of cartoonish zodiac that emerges from this approach, take the age-old classic, the Claritas PRIZM segments (now owned and marketed by Nielsen), which have been around since the 90s. One sample segment: Kids & Cul-de-Sacs:  Upscale, suburban, married couples with children - that's the skinny on Kids & Cul-de-Sacs, an enviable lifestyle of large families in recently built subdivisions. […] Their nexus of education, affluence and children translates into large outlays for child-centered products and services. This sort of caricature of a consumer segment was created as much for potential targeting as for populating ad agency pitches to clients. It took a complex and bewildering world of consumer data and preferences and reduced them to a neat mythology of just-so stories that got ad budgets approved. (“Aspirational Annie wants a starter car!” “Gregarious Greg spends over $400 per month on entertainment!”) With the rise of programmatic, software-driven advertising in the late aughts, these truthy marketing fairy tales have taken a more quantitative tinge. Which, in the context of Facebook and Cambridge Analytics, is where the psychometricians at Cambridge University come in. Two researchers at the Department of Psychology there, Michal Kosinksi and David Stillwell, had endeavored to craft completely algorithmic approaches to human psychological evaluation. Those efforts included a popular 2007 Facebook app called myPersonality that allowed Facebook users to take a psychometric test and see themselves ranked against the ‘Big Five’ personality traits of openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism (often shortened to OCEAN). According to the report in The Guardian ,which first ran the whistleblower’s claims, Cambridge Analytica had approached the authors of the myPersonality app for help with its ads targeting campaign. On being rebuffed, another researcher associated with Cambridge’s psychology faculty, Aleksandr Kogan, offered to step in and reproduce the model. (Interestingly, you can still take some of their psychometric personality tests here . Don’t worry! No Facebook login required!) Academic research centers with experimental volunteers and small sample sizes are one thing, but how do you do the study psychographics at Facebook scale? With an app, of course. Kogan wrote a Facebook app that asked Facebook users to walk through their computer-driven rating criteria with the specific view of ranking their ‘OCEAN’ characteristics, plus political inclinations. Here is where the skullduggery comes in: Let’s assume you build a model that can actually predict a voter’s likelihood of voting for Trump or Brexit based on some set of polled psychological traits. For it to be more than a research paper, you need to somehow exploit the model for actual ads targeting. But the problem is that Facebook doesn’t actually give you the tools to target a psychological state of mind (not yet, anyway)—it only offers pieces of user data such as Likes. To effectively target an ad, Kogan would need to peg diffuse characteristics like neuroticism and openness to a series of probable Facebook Likes, and for Cambridge Analytics, he had to do it at a large scale. Whether Kogan’s subjects realized it or not when they opted-in to his Facebook app, they allowed him to read some of their Facebook profile data. And for his collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, Kogan then hoovered in those users’ data, plus their friends’ data as well. (Facebook’s platform rules allowed this until mid-2015). That’s how the number of compromised users got as high as a reported 50 million. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica didn’t lure that many test subjects. They simply paid for or attracted hundreds of thousands, and pulling data from their subjects’ friends got them something like a third of the US electorate. With the Facebook police asleep, and data theft pulled off, what was Cambridge Analytica’s next step? They had to train a predictive model that guessed what sorts of Likes or Facebook profile data their targeted political archetypes possessed. In other words, now that Cambridge had a test set of people likely to vote for Trump, and knowing their profile data, how do they turn around and create a set of profile data the Trump campaign can input to the Facebook targeting system to reach more people like them? Note that the aspiring psychograficist (if that’s even a thing) is now making two predictive leaps to arrive at a voter target: guessing about individual political inclinations based on rather metaphysical properties like “conscientiousness;" and predicting what sort of Facebook user behaviors are also common among people with that same psychological quality. It’s two noisy predictors chained together, which is why psychographics have never been used much for Facebook ads targeting, though people have tried. While these conclusions are hard to make categorically even with the data in hand (and impossible to make without), a straw poll among my friends in the industry reveal near-unanimous skepticism about the effectiveness of psychographic targeting. One of the real macro stories about this election and Facebook’s involvement is how many of the direct-response advertising techniques (such as online retargeting) that are commonplace in commercial advertising are now making their way into political advertising. It seems the same products that can sell you soap and shoes can also sell you on a political candidate. Conversely, if this psychographics business is so effective, why isn’t it commonly used by smart e-commerce players like Amazon, or anyone else beyond the brand advertisers who like keeping old marketing folklore alive? One of the ironies of this most recent Facebook brouhaha is the differing reactions between the digital marketing professionals who’ve spent a career turning money into advertising pixels and a concerned public otherwise innocent to the realities of digital advertising. Most ad insiders express skepticism about Cambridge Analytica’s claims of having influenced the election, and stress the real-world difficulty of changing anyone’s mind about anything with mere Facebook ads, least of all deeply ingrained political views. The public, with no small help from the media sniffing a great story, is ready to believe in the supernatural powers of a mostly unproven targeting strategy. What they don’t realize is what every ads practitioner, including no doubt Cambridge Analytica itself, knows subconsciously: in the ads world, just because a product doesn’t work doesn’t mean you can’t sell it. Before this most recent leak, and its subsquent ban on Facebook, Cambridge Analytica was quite happy to sell its purported skills, no matter how dubious they might really be. More Cambridge Analytica The data team the Trump campaign leaned on in 2016 has come into focus this week over the apparent misuse of the data of 50 million Facebook users Cambridge Analytica execs were caught discussing extortion and fake news A look at the company—and the controversy around it—from the summer of 2016 Photograph by WIRED/Getty Images Related Video How to Lock Down Your Facebook Security and Privacy Settings The only way to be truly secure on Facebook is to delete your account. But that's crazy talk! Here's how to lock down your privacy and security and bonus, keep targeted ads at bay. 


[w514]  Meet The Psychologist At The Center Of Facebook's Data Scandal GAleksandr Kogan was suspended by Facebook over allegations he lied about how certain data would be used        In a video published online in September, a social scientist named Alex Spectre made an earnest pitch for his new startup. Clad in the Silicon Valley uniform of open-collar shirt and blazer, Spectre boasted that his company -- Philometrics -- would revolutionize the way online surveys were done, making it easier for companies to design questionnaires that people would actually respond to on Facebook, Twitter or other sites. Crucially, he said, the surveys could predict the responses for large groups from a small number of respondents and micro-target ads better. "The reality is working with big data, social media is incredibly difficult," said Spectre, who more commonly goes by Aleksandr Kogan, which he uses in his role as a Cambridge University researcher. "You want to work with people who have a lot of experience. You want to connect with people who have been working with these massive data sets." Kogan would know. On Friday, he was suspended by Facebook Inc. for his earlier work mining data on what the New York Times reported was as many as 50 million Facebook users and sharing it with Cambridge Analytica, a political-advertising firm that helped Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Facebook suspended Kogan over allegations that he lied when he said the data would be used for research purposes only. The social network suspended Cambridge Analytica as well. The boyish-appearing Kogan has been thrown into the center of a scandal that has called into question not only the methods the Trump campaign used to psychoanalyze and target potential voters and win the presidency, but also the practices of Silicon Valley companies in allowing third parties to access and exploit private information. Facebook has since disabled the feature that let Kogan amass personal data on millions of users when less than 1 percent of those people even downloaded his app. But the episode offers a glimpse into how promiscuous some internet giants actually are with information that many users assume is always kept secret.  Government officials in the U.S. and Europe are calling for Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to appear in front of lawmakers, and the demands for answers may foreshadow tougher regulation for the social network. Kogan didn't respond to multiple attempts to reach him for comment. His ill-fated detour from the academic track into the darker corners of social media marketing began in 2014 when U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica turned to Kogan for help. The firm was interested in a data project Kogan had worked on at Cambridge University that was based on research into personality traits and social media. Kogan, who had moved to the U.S. from Russia as a child and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 2008 with a degree in psychology before moving to Hong Kong for his doctorate, ultimately joined Cambridge University in 2012, where he remains a research associate in the psychology department, a position he has retained since relocating back to the San Francisco Bay area. While at Cambridge University, Kogan formed a company in the U.K. called Global Science Research, which created an app called 'thisisyourdigitallife' that offered Facebook users personality predictions, in exchange for accessing their personal data on the social network and more limited information about their friends -- including their "likes" -- if their privacy settings allowed it. Only about 270,000 people downloaded the app, but the researchers were able to mine the profiles of tens of millions of people through tools Facebook had at the time that gave third parties access to a wide swath of information. Kogan's company then took the results of those personality surveys and matched them to the users' actual likes on Facebook -- and the likes of their friends -- to build a model predicting personalities based on digital behavior. The company eventually gave Cambridge Analytica a list of millions of people in the U.S., with their names, locations, genders, ages and predicted test scores. In his 2017 video promoting Philometrics, Kogan touted his team's unique expertise in cracking this code, of predicting the tastes of a large group of people from the responses of a smaller one, which he described as one of the central challenges of doing online research or targeted marketing. "Social media data is incredible in its opportunities, but it's also incredibly challenging," Kogan said in the video. Until 2014, Facebook's rules let third parties access this back-door channel to friends' data. That year, the company tightened its privacy settings to "ensure that each person decides what information they want to share about themselves, including their friend list." Facebook has worked to counter the description of what happened as a "breach," but the reality is that the underlying act of data scraping by third parties was not only permitted but encouraged by the social network -- raising questions about how many others abused their access to Facebook user information. For its part, Cambridge Analytica said the Facebook data wasn't used as part of the services it provided to Trump's presidential campaign, adding that it fully complies with Facebook's terms of service and is working with the company to resolve the matter. A person familiar with Kogan's company's work last year told Bloomberg News that the methodology and data that it gave to Cambridge Analytica was almost useless in predicting individual personalities, because of a high error rate, and that Cambridge Analytica's claim of being able to provide behavioral micro-targeting of ads down to the individual level is more marketing bluster than Big Brother. The more difficult issue for Facebook is that it had been aware of the controversy over Kogan and Cambridge Analytica's use of the information since 2015, when Facebook demanded he and Cambridge Analytica delete the data. The social network is now dealing with the fallout of being unable to police how collectors of private Facebook data during that time used the information, and whether they followed Facebook's rules about sharing or selling it. Facebook is also investigating whether one of its employees, Joseph Chancellor, who formed Global Science Research with Kogan while Chancellor was a doctoral student at Cambridge University, knew about the data leak. Chancellor is now a social-psychology researcher at Facebook. He didn't respond to a message via LinkedIn seeking comment. Cambridge University said in a statement that it had no evidence to suggest that Kogan had used university resources or facilities for the Global Science Research work, but that it has contacted Facebook requesting "all relevant evidence in their possession." The University said that Kogan had sought permission from the head of the psychology department to work with St. Petersburg University on the condition that any grants he received would be "in a private capacity, separate to his work at University of Cambridge." A person familiar with Kogan's work says he had a grant that allowed him to do minimal teaching in 2017 and 2018, without specifying the source or nature of the award. In 2015, Kogan and his new wife decided to change their last name to something that reflected their belief in both religion and science, and they settled on Spectre, six months before the James Bond film of the same name came out, and long before Russian election meddling dominated the news. A person close to Kogan said the name change had nothing to do with the controversy surrounding his work. "What person would change their name to a Bond villain," the person said, "to avoid bad press?" 


[w515]'It might work too well': the dark art of political advertising online 'It might work too well': the dark art of political advertising online  'It might work too well': the dark art of political advertising online         Some of the Facebook ads linked to a Russian effort to disrupt the US political process and stir up tensions around divisive social issues, released by the House intelligence committee. Photograph: Jon Elswick/AP lan Gould was hitting a wall. It was the late 1990s, and the political advertising operative had an idea about using a relatively newfangled tool – banner ads on web sites – to promote political candidates. “It was pretty clear to me at the time that the ability to target and tailor messaging was perfect for political campaigns,” Gould recalled recently. “I did a whole presentation on the internet and the power to connect, track, do fundraising, target.” But when Gould finished his pitches, he would be met with blank stares. “I was a very lonely pied piper,” he says. Finally, in 1998, Gould found a political candidate who was so far behind in the polls, and so strapped for cash, that he was willing to take a risk and spend $100,000 on banner ads on the New York Times homepage. Peter Vallone, then a New York City council member challenging George Pataki for the governorship, gave Gould the green light for an ad buy that has since entered the history books as the first significant use of online advertising in a political campaign. ‘I made Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare tool’: meet the data war whistleblower Read more The ads themselves are lost to internet history – Gould believes he may have copies somewhere on floppy discs. But it’s not hard to draw a line from that moment to Robert Mueller’s 16 February indictment of the Internet Research Agency, which alleges that Russian agents carried out a conspiracy to interfere with a US presidential election, in large part by purchasing targeted Facebook ads designed to “encourage US minority groups not to vote”. Or to the news recently revealed in the Observer that 50m Facebook profiles were obtained and misused by data mining company Cambridge Analytica to target voters during the 2016 presidential election. Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer The Vallone ads contained rudimentary versions of many of the attributes that make digital advertising such a powerful – and terrifying – force today: the ability to target specific audiences with tailored messages, then track their reaction. “Come November 2000, I expect the question will no longer be whether web-based political advertising works,” wrote Cyrus Krohn, then the manager of political advertising for the Microsoft Network, in a prescient 1999 column for Slate , “but whether it works too well.” Nearly 20 years later, the world has caught up to Krohn’s concerns, with some critics making the not entirely hyperbolic argument that micro-targeted “dark advertising” on Facebook is a fundamental threat to democracy itself. Is it too late for democracy to fix itself? Game-changing In February, Donald Trump named Brad Parscale as his 2020 re-election campaign manager. The decision lends credence to what Parscale has been saying for the past year : that his Facebook advertising operation won Trump the election.      Brad Parscale, the digital media director of Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign, has been hired to lead his 2020 presidential re-election campaign. Photograph: Drew Angerer/Getty Images Parscale had been a little-known digital marketing executive working out of Texas when he was tapped to build Trump’s campaign website in 2015. Until then, digital advertising was barely a rounding error in campaign budgets. In 2008, the year Barack Obama became the first social media candidate, candidates spent just $22.25m on online political ads, according to an analysis by Borrell Associates. That number grew significantly in 2012, but the real explosion came in 2016, when campaigns pumped $1.4bn into digital ads. US presidential campaigns are often remembered – and understood – by their advertisements. Lyndon B Johnson’s “ Daisy ” ad powerfully (and controversially) set the stakes of an election in a nuclear world. George HW Bush’s “ Willie Horton ” attack ad still epitomizes the racist dog-whistle politics of the tough-on-crime era. The message, as much as the messenger, is a key part of the debate over who is best equipped to lead the country. But no such public debate took place around Trump’s apparently game-changing digital political advertisements before election day. This is partly due to a loophole in the prevailing campaign finance law, which was written in 2002 and did not include internet ads in the class of regulated “electioneering communications”. But perhaps even more important is the very nature of online advertising, which is self-serve (just sign up with a credit card and go) and highly iterative. Parscale claims he typically ran 50,000 to 60,000 variations of Facebook ads each day during the Trump campaign, all targeting different segments of the electorate. Understanding the meaning of a single one of those ads would require knowing what the ad actually said, who the campaign targeted to see that ad, and how that audience responded. Multiply that by 100 and you have a headache; by 50,000 and you’ll start to doubt your grasp on reality. Then remember that this is 50,000 a day over the course of a campaign that lasted more than a year. “The reason I said it might work too well,” Krohn said in a recent interview with the Guardian, “is that mass marketing went away and micro-targeting – nano-targeting – came to fruition.” Any candidate using Facebook can put a campaign message promising one thing in front of one group of voters while simultaneously running an ad with a completely opposite message in front of a different group of voters. The ads themselves are not posted anywhere for the general public to see (this is what’s known as “dark advertising”), and chances are, no one will ever be the wiser. Trump digital director says Facebook helped win the White House Read more That undermines the very idea of a “marketplace of ideas”, says Ann Ravel, a former member of the Federal Election Commission who has long advocated stricter regulations on digital campaigning. “The way to have a robust democracy is for people to hear all these ideas and make decisions and discuss,” Ravel said. “With microtargeting, that is not happening.” Parscale and his staff told reporters with Bloomberg that they used Facebook ads to target Hillary Clinton supporters with messages designed to make them sit the election out, including her own forays into dog-whistle politics from the 1990s, which the Trump campaign hoped would discourage black voters from turning out to the polls. That degree of political manipulation might be unsavory, but it’s also relatively old-fashioned. One digital campaign staffer (not affiliated with the Trump campaign) compared it to Richard Nixon’s Southern Strategy, only “technologically savvy”. But new reporting by the Observer has revealed that the data analytics team that worked for Trump, Cambridge Analytica, went far beyond Nixonian dirty tricks. The firm obtained Facebook data harvested under the auspices of an academic study, the Observer has revealed, and then used that data to target millions of US voters based on their psychological weaknesses. “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles,” whistleblower Christopher Wylie told the Observer about the data theft, “and built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons.” European elections Political advertising in the US is the wild west compared with other western democracies, which tend to have shorter election campaigns with strict regulations on the amount and type of spending permitted. Such rules may enhance the impact of digital advertising, which is much cheaper than television and largely unregulated. The UK has seen a rapid shift to digital campaigning following the Conservative party’s embrace of Facebook in the 2015 general election. The Tories outspent Labour by a factor of 10 on Facebook advertisements, a decision that many political observers saw as decisive. In a country that bans political ads on television, Facebook enabled the Conservatives to reach 80.65% of users in targeted constituencies with its promoted posts and video ads, according to marketing materials created by Facebook. (At some point in the past year, the company began hiding previously produced “Success Stories” about its ability to sway election results.) The Vote Leave campaign in the 2016 Brexit referendum went on to spend almost its entire budget on Facebook advertising, an investment that resulted in about 1bn targeted digital ads being served to voters over the course of a 10-week campaign. Though it is impossible to parse the exact impact of Facebook advertisements amid all the other factors that shape an electoral result (including organic Facebook content), the platform is increasingly cited as a factor in the growing electoral might of far-right groups in Europe.      Supporters of the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) political party demonstrate outside the Chancellery in Berlin last week. Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty Images The radical right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) party reportedly worked with a US campaign consultancy and Facebook itself to target German voters susceptible to its anti-immigrant message during the 2017 election in which AfD surged in popularity to become the third-largest party in parliament. Campaigning in Italy’s recent election, which saw the rise of anti-establishment parties, including the populist Five Star Movement and the far-right League, largely took place on social media . Facebook advertisements and targeting information gathered by Italian transparency group Openpolis found that the neo-fascist Brothers of Italy party ran a Facebook ad targeting Italian adults who are interested in the paramilitary police force, the carabinieri. After the polls closed in Italy, the League’s Matteo Salvini shared some words of gratitude with the press: “Thank God for the internet. Thank God for social media. Thank God for Facebook.” Targeting the midterms While investigations into the 2016 US election and Brexit referendum continue, it’s worth remembering that more elections are fast approaching. Scores of countries will hold national elections in 2018, including Sweden, Ireland, Egypt, Mexico and Brazil. In the US, candidates for the 435 congressional and 35 Senate seats that are up for grabs in November are already running campaigns on Facebook, and we may never know what they’re saying in those advertisements. Take, for example, Paul Nehlen, a candidate who is running a Republican primary challenge against the speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, in Wisconsin. Nehlen is primarily known as a vehement antisemite who was once embraced by Steve Bannon and the Breitbart wing of the right, but was excommunicated after appearing on a white supremacist podcast . They’ve built this incredibly powerful platform that allows very narrow targeting ... so that scares me Alan Mislove, professor According to his FEC filings, Nehlen spent at least $2,791.72 on Facebook ads in the final six months of 2017. What did that money buy? In the first instance, everything that any Facebook advertiser can get: access to one of the most powerful databases of personal information that has ever existed, with insights into individuals’ intimate relationships, political beliefs, consumer habits and internet browsing. Beyond that, we don’t know. Nehlen could be using Facebook to target likely voters in his district with a message about infrastructure. Or he could have taken a list of his own core supporters (he has more than 40,000 likes on Facebook), used Facebook’s “lookalike audience” tool to find other people inclined to support his particular politics, then fed them ads designed to persuade more people to join him in hating Jews. Last fall, after Facebook had been forced to admit that, despite its initial denials, its platform had been used by foreign agents seeking to illegally influence the election, the company announced a set of reforms designed to assuage its critics – and stave off actual, enforceable regulation.      Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook has taken steps to achieve ‘an even higher standard of transparency’. Photograph: Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images Starting this summer, the platform has promised that every political ad will be linked back to the page that paid for it. The pages themselves will display every ad that they’re running, as well as demographic information about the audience that they are reaching, a measure that Mark Zuckerberg claimed would “bring Facebook to an even higher standard of transparency” than the law requires for television or other media. A version of these reforms is already live in Canada, where users can see all the ads being run by a political candidate in a designated tab on their page. But there is good reason to be skeptical. Since 2014, Facebook has had a transparency tool for all ads served on the platform. Click on the upper right-hand corner of a Facebook ad and you’ll see an option reading “Why am I seeing this ad?” Click through and you’ll get an explanation of the characteristics that make you desirable to the advertiser. So far so good, but a new study by computer scientists found that Facebook’s ad explanations were “often incomplete and sometimes misleading” in a way that “may allow malicious advertisers to easily obfuscate ad explanations that are discriminatory or that target privacy-sensitive attributes”. Alan Mislove, a professor of computer science at Northeastern University and one of the study’s co-authors, said that he gave Facebook credit for having the feature at all, noting that it is one of the only examples of a company offering any kind of explanation of how an algorithm actually works. But the findings do not paint a particularly pretty picture of Facebook’s ability to self-regulate. “They’ve built this incredibly powerful platform that allows very narrow targeting, a very powerful tool that anyone on the internet can use, so that scares me,” Mislove said. “And up until very recently, there was very little accountability. You as a malicious actor on Facebook don’t even really need to obfuscate your behavior, because the only person watching is Facebook.” Honest Ads Act The best hope for bringing some order to the realm of digital political ads is through updating US law for the Facebook era. A bipartisan proposal to do just that exists. In October, Senators Amy Klobuchar, Mark Warner and John McCain introduced the Honest Ads Act, which would close the loophole that allows internet ads to avoid regulation, and also require internet platforms (ie Facebook and Google) to maintain a public file of all the political ads they run and who paid for them.      Senators Amy Klobuchar and Mark Warner introduce the Honest Ads Act at a news conference on Capitol Hill on 19 October 2017. Photograph: Michael Reynolds/EPA But as much as we need transparency around political ads to maintain democracy, we also need a functioning democracy to get that transparency. And it’s not clear that it’s not already too late. “In an ideal world, with a fully functioning Congress, there would be hearings around the Honest Ads Act, and you would have Facebook and Google and Twitter and experts testify to shine a light on the nature of political advertising,” said Brendan Fischer, director of FEC reform at the Campaign Legal Center. “We’re not close to that at all.” In the absence of a fully functioning Congress, what is to be done? Should we expect Facebook to simply stop selling political ads? Antonio Garcia Martinez, a former product manager for Facebook who helped develop its advertising tools says that he has come to realize that political ads are simply a different beast than commercial ones, which can and should be treated differently by his former employer. “Selling shoes needs to be different than selling politicians, even though the mechanics of it are identical,” he said. “Morally it’s different.” Or should we pressure Facebook to stop allowing candidates with hateful or extremist views to use its tools? “If we farm these important democratic responsibilities out to a private company, today they might be regulating antisemitism, but tomorrow they’re regulating what people can say about the Honest Ads Act,” Fischer said. Indeed, Facebook could already be suppressing political views unfavorable to its business practices, and we would have no way of knowing. It’s possible Facebook wouldn’t even know. In response to queries about inconsistent moderation of clothing advertisements, a Facebook spokeswoman recently told the New York Times that “the company could not ask an automated system about [its] decisions”. Frankenstein’s monster is not under any human’s control. No one can pretend Facebook is just harmless fun any more | Ellie Mae O’Hagan Read more If this all seems positively dystopian, one person who is surprisingly sanguine is Alan Gould. Gould left politics soon after the Vallone campaign, founded an advertising analytics firm, sold it, and is now a tech investor. He does have concerns about media literacy and Facebook’s tendency to trap people in filter bubbles, but says: “If people choose to stay in that bubble and not explore anything outside of it, that’s a statement about who they are and not about the technology. “If you’re going to have a representative democracy, then you have to have a way to communicate with the voters and you’re going to use whatever is available, whether that’s newspapers or mail or email or Snapchat,” he said. “I don’t regret it at all.”  

[w516] How one researcher harvested data from 50 million people — and Facebook was designed to help How one researcher harvested data from 50 million people — and Facebook was designed to help Cambridge Analytica used the data to build detailed profiles on voters in the run-up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the U.K.'s Brexit campaign. Cambridge Analytica used the data to build voter profiles for U.S. and U.K political ad campaigns CBC News Posted: Mar 19, 2018 7:20 PM ET | Last Updated: April 19 Matthew Braga Senior Technology Reporter Matthew Braga is the senior technology reporter for CBC News, where he covers about how data is collected, used, and shared. If you have a tip, you can contact this reporter securely using Signal or WhatsApp at +1 416 316 4872, or via email at matthew.braga@cbc.ca. For particularly sensitive messages or documents, consider using Secure Drop, an anonymous, confidential system for sharing encrypted information with CBC News. Twitter SecureDrop CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Meet Trump backer Robert Mercer, the man behind Cambridge Analytica Facebook whistleblower pushed data-mining boundaries in Canada: source Canadian whistleblower on why he exposed 'problematic' Facebook data misuse by Trump consulting firm Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak Facebook suspends data analytics firm that worked for Trump campaign Facebook shares fall as EU, U.S. urge probes of data practices 


[w517]    Facebook data-mining scandal uncovers whistleblower’s connection to B.C. WATCH: The man at the centre of a scandal involving the exploitation of private information from millions of Facebook users – allegedly to benefit U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign – is from B.C.


[w518]    Facebook data scandal: How could likes profile voters for manipulation? Facebook data scandal: How could likes profile voters for manipulation? Post Author Credit  WATCH: A new undercover video has led to the suspension of Cambridge Analytica's CEO. As well, a Canadian woman will investigate the breach in Britain. Jeff Semple reports.

[w519] 

[w520]  		The U.K. firm that took ‘fake news to the next level’ using private information from 50M Facebook profiles The U.K. firm that took 'fake news to the next level' using private information from 50M Facebook profiles Cambridge Analytica faced more controversy Monday after senior executives were filmed saying they could entrap politicians with bribes and Ukrainian prostitutes .The Canadian who blew the whistle on an alleged propaganda scheme using a data mining breach at Facebook says it “took fake news to the next level.” Christopher Wylie said the data from Facebook — gleaned from 50 million people without their knowledge — was then used to change people’s perceptions. “I feel a sense of regret every day when I see where they have helped take our world,” said Wylie, from British Columbia. U.S. and British lawmakers are demanding that Facebook explain how the political data firm Cambridge Analytica was able to harvest private information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles without the social network’s alerting users. Canada’s privacy commissioner is also demanding to know whether any Canadians had personal information compromised. The furore caused Facebook to lose US$36 billion in value Monday with CEO Mark Zuckerberg suffering a US$4.9 billion personal lose and a drop from the world’s fourth-richest man to fifth. Cambridge Analytica was used by Donald Trump in his successful 2016 presidential campaign. The U.K. company earned US$5.9 million in 2016 from the Trump campaign, according to data from the Federal Election Commission. Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Steve Bannon, a former adviser to the president. Wylie, a Cambridge co-founder who left in 2014, said he did not know to what extent Trump’s campaign used the techniques, but he said Trump’s former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, was meeting with Cambridge Analytica in 2015, before Trump even announced his run for office. Cambridge Analytica is also under scrutiny for its propaganda practises and how it used the Facebook data. Britain’s information commissioner says she will apply for a warrant to access the servers of the company. Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said the firm had been “unco-operative” in her investigation of whether Facebook data was “illegally acquired and used.” The firm faced more controversy Monday after senior executives were filmed saying they could entrap politicians with bribes and Ukrainian prostitutes. In an undercover investigation filmed by Britain’s Channel 4 News, Alexander Nix, the firm’s chief executive officer, claimed the company had worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India and Argentina. Politicians could be bribed or compromised by sending “some girls around to the candidates house.” Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well,” said Nix on the video recording. In the investigation, Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, said Cambridge Analytica could then discreetly push the compromising material onto social media and the internet. “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control,” said Turnbull. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told Channel 4 News, “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” Nix told BBC’s Newsnight, “A lot of the allegations that have been put to Cambridge are entirely unfounded and extremely unfair.” But U.K. Culture Secretary Matt Hancock was met with cheers in Parliament when he said that the “Wild West” days of “digital companies who flout rules and think that the best thing to do is to move fast and break things without respect for the impact that has on democracy and on society” were over. In a statement Sunday, Wylie, 28, described himself as “a curious and naive 23-year-old,” when he first went to work for Analytica. It was his information about the firm’s methods that were used by The New York Times and Britain’s Observer to alert the world to the Facebook breach over the weekend. “I do feel responsible for it and it’s something that I regret,” Wylie says in a video interview posted on The Observer’s web page. “It was a grossly unethical experiment because you are playing with an entire country, the psychology of an entire country, without their consent or awareness.” ‘A grossly unethical experiment’: Canadian whistleblower at centre of Facebook data breach scandal Facebook’s Zuckerberg comes under fire from U.K., US lawmakers Trump-linked data analysis firm taps 50M Facebook profiles In an interview Monday on NBC’s Today Wylie said Cambridge Analytica secured personal data in order to learn about individuals and then used it to create an information cocoon to change their perceptions. “This is based on an idea called ’informational dominance,’ which is the idea that if you can capture every channel of information around a person and then inject content around them, you can change their perception of what’s actually happening,” Wylie said. “This is a company that really took fake news to the next level.” “It’s a full-service propaganda machine,“ he said of Cambridge Analytica. On Saturday, Trump’s campaign denied using the firm’s data, saying it relied on the Republican National Committee for its information. In a statement Monday, Cambridge Analytica “strongly denied” the allegations that it had improperly obtained Facebook data. It also denied that the Facebook data was used by the Trump campaign. Facebook has denied the data collection was a breach because people knowingly provided their information. The company has said University of Cambridge psychology professor Aleksandr Kogan accessed the information after he requested it from users who gave their consent when they chose to sign up for a test via a new Facebook app. I feel a sense of regret every day when I see where they have helped take our world Kogan ultimately provided more than 50 million raw profiles to Cambridge Analytica, said Wylie. Facebook said it had hired a digital forensics firm to conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica to determine if the Facebook data the company collected still existed or if it had been destroyed. Meanwhile, The Canadian Press reported Monday that years ago, Wylie worked in the office of former Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff. Wylie had already begun to develop strategies on how politicians could capitalize on data collected through social media, said a former senior Liberal insider who spoke on condition of anonymity. At the time, the idea was viewed as too invasive and raised concerns with the Liberals, who declined to have anything to do with it, the insider told CP. Wylie’s recommended data-collection approach spooked party officials to the point that it became an significant factor behind their decision not to renew his contract in 2009. “Let’s say he had boundary issues on data even back then,” said the insider, who noted that Wylie’s descriptions of his methods in media reports sounded familiar. “He effectively pitched an earlier version of exactly this to us back in 2009 and we said, ’No.”’

[w521] 

[w522]  


[w523] Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak The Liberal government is enlisting CSIS and the Communications Security Establishment to look into how secure online personal information is being secured as three federal NDP MPs ask Canada's privacy watchdog to investigate Facebook amid concerns the social media giant is not properly securing the private data of Canadians. Trudeau tells House of Commons he will bring up issue at G7 summit in Quebec's Charlevoix region 


[w524]  US cops go all Minority Report: Google told to cough up info on anyone near a crime scene US cops go all Minority Report: Google told to cough up info on anyone near a crime scene Police cyber-hunt reveals massive gap in legal protections    By Kieren McCarthy in San Francisco  SHARE    Efforts to track down criminals in the US state of North Carolina have laid bare a dangerous gap in the law over the use of location data. Raleigh police went to court at least three times last year and got a warrant requiring Google to share the details of any users that were close to crime scenes during specific times and dates. The first crime was the murder of a cab driver in November 2016, the second an arson attack in March 2017 and the third, sexual battery , in August 2017 – suggesting that the police force is using the approach to discover potentially incriminating evidence for increasingly less serious crimes. In each case, the cops used GPS coordinates to draw a rough rectangle around the areas of interest – covering nearly 20 acres in the murder case – and asked for the details of any users that entered those areas in time periods of between 60 to 90 minutes e.g. between 1800 and 1930. The warrants were granted by a judge complete with an order to prevent disclosure so Google was legally prevented from informing impacted users that their details had been shared with law enforcement. Google complied with the warrants. It is worth noting that the data haul is not limited to users of Google hardware i.e. phones running Android but also any phone that ran Google apps – which encompasses everything from its driving app service to its calendar, browser, predictive keyboard and so on. Details are only now emerging as those disclosure orders expire, and local TV station WRAL has been digging through public records to see how often and for what these unusual orders have been used by the police. The approach raises a whole host of privacy concerns, not least because there seem to be no established rules or laws covering the release of such highly personal information. Although the police clearly feel they have carefully considered Fourth Amendment rights by limiting the size of the search by geography and time, and by asking for limited and anonymized data, the reality is that the police tend to have a much narrower definition of constitutional rights than citizens, particularly when it comes to investigating crimes. The Raleigh police are not the only police force using the fact that companies like Google store enormous quantities of personally identifiable data on millions of people in a hunt for clues. A spokesman told WRAL that it had began using the technique after they heard about cops in Orange Country using a similar approach to investigate a crime on their area. While it is understandable that the police would want to use any method at their disposal to solve crimes - some in favor have argued it is no different to getting a warrant for surveillance footage - the use of location data remains a controversial topic. Despite efforts to limit the dataset pulled from Google's servers, the requests will have included the details of dozens, potentially hundreds, of innocent people. The arson attack, for example, occurred at an apartment complex in a dense part of the city so the search – which covered anyone in a one block radius between 1930 and 2200 on a Thursday night – will have picked up a lot of ordinary folk doing nothing but going about their lives. We don't know how many people's details were handed over because neither Google nor the police will say. Likewise, we don't know whether the searches produced information that proved critical to the investigations that couldn't have been acquired through other means. For example, the man responsible for shooting and killing cab driver Nwabu Efobi in November 2016 was arrested and charged with murder in October 2017 after location data warrants were issued in March and returned in July. We don't know if those warrants put police on the trail of Tyron Cooper or whether there was other evidence or leads that led to them identifying him. We do know that it was footage from security cameras that led the police to ask for Google location data on the night before the shooting, as well as the night of the shooting itself. The concern is that the police will increasingly use the approach as a fishing expedition for potential leads – something that the courts have persistently ruled is not an acceptable or constitutional practice. The lack of notification to people whose movements are shared with law enforcement is also a serious concern. While there remain no clear laws on the use and provision of mobile phone data, it will fall to the individual judge to make a decision as to what is appropriate. Faced with successful warrant applications, it is also inevitable that police forces will use them more, and increasingly widely, since they will be following lawful process and potentially gathering useful information. But it is fair to say that the billions of users of mobile phones do not imagine the police will be in a position to track their movements simply because they were close to where a crime was committed. Despite tech-savvy individuals understanding that phones theoretically allow for such tracking, it is only a matter of time until something like Cambridge Analytica's gathering and misuse of Facebook user data happens with respect to location data. It is worth noting that Google is only able to provide GPS coordinates if you allow your phone – or Google app – to use your location. At least in theory .

[w525]  Facebook value drops by $37bn amid privacy backlash - BBC News Facebook's shares have fallen sharply, wiping $37bn off the firm's value, as it faces questions from US and UK politicians about its privacy rules. The social network is under fire after reports on how Cambridge Analytica, which some believe helped Donald Trump win the US election, acquired and used Facebook's customer information. Theresa May's spokesman called the allegations "very concerning". The UK data protection body is seeking a warrant to search the firm's offices. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham says it will be used to look at the databases and servers used by British data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook shares ended trading 6.7% lower at $172.56, wiping almost $37bn off the social network's market value. The company is accused of failing to properly inform users that their profile information may have been obtained and kept by Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm. "The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook's data practices, and the picture is not pretty," said Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor. Warrant sought for Cambridge Analytica Zuckerberg pressed to face breach concerns Facebook data sharing - time to act? Firm suspended On Friday, Facebook suspended the consulting firm, saying it had acquired data from a researcher who violated the firm's policies. Cambridge Analytica "strongly denies" the allegations levelled against it. Asked about the reports, the prime minister's spokesman said: "The allegations are clearly very concerning. "It is essential that people can have confidence that their personal data will be protected and used in an appropriate way." US senators Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat, and John Kennedy, a Republican, have also called for a hearing about data security and said they want to question Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, and the heads of other tech companies. "While Facebook has pledged to enforce its policies to protect people's information, questions remain as to whether those policies are sufficient and whether Congress should take action to protect people's private information," they wrote in the letter. "The lack of oversight on how data is stored and how political advertisements are sold raises concerns about the integrity of American elections as well as privacy rights." Alexander Nix, chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, was questioned by a Parliamentary committee last month about using data to target messages. 

[w526]  BOOM! Cambridge Analytica explodes following extraordinary TV expose By Kieren McCarthy in San Francisco  SHARE    Updated Controversial data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica has been hit with an emergency data seizure order in England following an extraordinary series of events Monday night that revolved around a TV undercover expose. Following a day in which the company became the focus of attention online , in print, and in the UK Parliament and US Congress for its unethical use of user data, senior executives from the firm were then shown on camera boasting about the use of dark methods, including honey traps, fake news and sub-contracting with ex-spies to entrap individuals. Those revelations – filmed during an undercover investigation by Channel 4 in the UK – came as the controversial company was already in the news after it was revealed it had secretly grabbed the personal details of over 50 million Facebook users and used the data to sell voter targeting services. The whole segment can be seen here: Youtube Video Following the segment on those secret recordings, UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said she would seek a warrant on Tuesday forcing Cambridge Analytica to hand over relevant data, after she said the company had refused to respond sufficiently to earlier requests. Adding to a sense of drama, as Denham was on television saying she would apply for the warrant, a Channel 4 reporter posted outside the company's headquarters reported that a team from Facebook was inside the building ensuring that their purloined data had been deleted. That series of events sparked one senior politician, live on air, to outline his concern that the company could be deleting incriminating data as they were talking. Soon after, other journalists and politicians expressed their dismay at the two-day lead-time that a company that has just been shown to be unscrupulous and may have committed criminal acts was being given to delete any evidence of wrongdoing. Less than an hour after the program aired, the authorities announced they had received a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's offices that very night. As to the undercover investigation, Channel 4's reporters posed as Sri Lankan clients interested in paying the company to help their candidates in upcoming elections. Over the course of a series of meetings in London a series of senior executives outlined an increasingly disturbing array of services they would be willing to provide. At an initial meeting with its managing director Mark Turnbull and chief data officer Dr Alex Tayler the pair talked about their infamous data analytics and profiling services as a way to identify potential swing voters. But Turnbull also suggested that the company could provide "intelligence gathering" through "relationships and partnerships we have with specialist organizations", and said the company could provide information on a political opposition's secrets and strategies. Such shadowy tactics were again offered at a subsequent meeting, with Turnbull saying Cambridge Analytica could "contract under a different name, or as a different entity" so no trace of the company's involvement could be found. He then appeared to prove that ability to hide in the shadows by discussing the company's work in Kenya. Despite publicly claiming that it had nothing to do with elections in Kenya, Turnbull was caught on tape boasting about the significant role the company had played. "We have rebranded the entire party twice, written their manifesto… messaging… just about every element of his campaign," he boasted. Turnbull stressed however that it was "not in the business of fake news, lying, making stuff up, not in the business of entrapment." That ethical line appeared to disappear however when the undercover journalists met with Cambridge Analytica's chief executive Alexander Nix. Nix was caught on film outlining a series of extremely dubious and many cases illegal scenarios for dealing with political opponents. They included bribing officials and candidates – "we can have a wealthy developer come in and offer a large amount of money to a candidate - for land, for example" - and film the transaction in order to expose them as corrupt. He also suggested that the company could arrange for a honey-trap – sending young women to operate a sex sting – while stressing that he was "just giving examples of what can be done, what has been done." He also appeared to embrace the idea of creating and promoting fake news – an extremely sensitive topic given the evidence that fake news was used extensively in the US presidential elections in 2016 – noting that "it doesn't have to be true, it just has to be believed." In response to what appeared to be clear evidence that Cambridge Analytica was prepared to carry out dirty tricks campaigns, the company said that its executives made the suggestions as a tactical ploy to see if the potential client was ethical. The company also claimed that it had "grave concerns" about the client, implying that it would not do business with him. But, as a member of the Channel 4 investigation team pointed out soon after, the company had been in contact with their team for months after the filming and had kept asking about their "impending partnership." The company said in a statement: "We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called 'honey-traps' for any purpose whatsoever," adding that it "routinely undertakes conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions." That explanation does not seem to be going down well with the authorities. As well as being accused of misleading a UK parliamentary select committee, there are now calls for Facebook and Cambridge Analytica to be hauled in front of committees in both UK Parliament and US Congress to explain their behavior. US Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) has sent a Facebook a list of questions [PDF] about its relationship with Cambridge Analytica and its policies, included a pointed reference to an agreement the social media giant reached with the FTC in 2011 over how it protected its users' privacy. ® Facebook has announced its auditors have stopped whatever they were doing in Cambridge Analytica's offices: Independent forensic auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytica’s London office this evening. At the request of the UK Information Commissioner’s Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down. Meanwhile, amid the privacy storm, Facebook's chief information security officer will leave the social networking giant by August, it is reported: NEW: Facebook's security officer @alexstamos is leaving the company amid disagreements with Facebook execs over how to address Russian interference. His team of 120 is down to 3 people:

[w527] 

[w528]  Cambridge Analytica: Warrant sought to inspect company  Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Media playback is unsupported on your device Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica was filmed by undercover reporters for Channel 4 News The UK's Information Commissioner is to apply to court for a warrant to search the offices of London-based political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica. The company is accused of using the personal data of 50 million Facebook members to influence the US presidential election in 2016. Its executives have also been filmed by Channel 4 News suggesting it could use honey traps and potentially bribery to discredit politicians. The company denies any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has been summoned to give evidence about the company's links to Cambridge Analytica to a UK parliamentary committee. Damian Collins MP, who is leading the committee's inquiry into fake news, accused Facebook of giving answers "misleading to the committee" at a previous hearing which asked whether information had been taken without users' consent. Fresh allegations On Monday, Channel 4 News broadcast hidden camera footage in which Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix appears to suggest tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online. In the footage, asked what "deep digging" could be done, Mr Nix told an undercover reporter: "Oh, we do a lot more than that." He suggested one way to target an individual was to "offer them a deal that's too good to be true and make sure that's video recorded". He also said he could "send some girls around to the candidate's house..." adding that Ukrainian girls "are very beautiful, I find that works very well". Mr Nix continued: "I'm just giving you examples of what can be done and what has been done." Cambridge Analytica: The story so far Facebook data sharing - time to act? Channel 4 News said its reporter had posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get a political candidate elected in Sri Lanka. Media playback is unsupported on your device Former Cambridge Analytica employee Christopher Wylie says the firm planted fake news However, Cambridge Analytica said the report had "grossly misrepresented" the conversations caught on camera. "In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our 'client' from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios," the company said in a statement. "Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called 'honeytraps'," it said. Mr Nix told the BBC's Newsnight programme that he regarded the report as a "misrepresentation of the facts" and said he felt the firm had been "deliberately entrapped". On its website, Cambridge Analytica says it can provide data and insights to "drive your voters to the polls and win your campaign" and says it has played a "pivotal role" in winning US presidential races. Media playback is unsupported on your device Mr Nix spoke to BBC Newsnight before the Channel 4 report was aired on Monday night. He declined to be interviewed after the undercover footage was broadcast UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating the company over claims it used personal data to influence the US election. Christopher Wylie, who worked with the company, claimed it amassed the data of millions of people through a personality quiz on Facebook called This is Your Digital Life that was created by an academic. 'Back away' Ms Denham demanded access to the firm's databases and servers after it missed her Monday deadline. She said her office has been investigating political campaigning and the use of political data for many months - the allegations against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica were one strand of that work. She said she was looking at whether personal data was acquired in "an unauthorised way", whether there was sufficient consent to share the data, what was done to safeguard it and whether Facebook acted robustly when they found out about the loss of the data. She admitted she told Facebook to withdraw from its own search of Cambridge Analytica's offices, saying there were concerns it might damage the integrity of her investigation. "Our advice to Facebook was to back away - and they agreed," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Media playback is unsupported on your device Information Commissioner: We need to get in to Cambridge Analytica offices Labour's shadow digital economy minister Liam Byrne said Ms Denham's powers did not allow her to apply for a digital search warrant "quickly and quietly". Instead, she has "told the world she's going to court", giving Cambridge Analytica and others time to hide any evidence, he told the Today programme. Former attorney general Dominic Grieve said her legal powers were inadequate and this matter had highlighted a need for "greater powers and greater sanctions". Ms Denham said she was using all the powers she had under the law but would not know whether evidence had been tampered with until her team of forensic experts gained access to the offices. 'Violation' Cambridge Analytica insists it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data, but it was suspended from Facebook last week. Facebook, meanwhile, will hold an open meeting with its employees later to discuss the matter, tech news website The Verge is reporting. Facebook said it has hired its own digital forensic team to audit Cambridge Analytica to find out whether the Facebook data in question still exists. Facebook's value falls $37bn amid backlash Zuckerberg pressed to face breach concerns "If this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook's policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made." Facebook said Aleksandr Kogan, who created the personality app from which the data had been harvested, has agreed to be audited, but Mr Wylie - who made the claims about the way the data was gathered and used - has declined. How to protect your data on Facebook There are a few things to be aware of if you want to restrict who has access to your data. Keep an eye on apps, especially those which require you to log in using your Facebook account - they often have a very wide range of permissions and many are specifically designed to pick up your data Use an ad blocker to limit advertising Look at your Facebook security settings and make sure you are aware of what is enabled. Check the individual app settings to see whether you have given them permission to view your friends as well as yourself. You can download a copy of the data Facebook holds on you, although it is not comprehensive. There is a download button at the bottom of the General Account Settings tab. However bear in mind that your data may be less secure sitting on your laptop than it is on Facebook's servers, if your device is hacked. You can of course, simply leave Facebook, but the campaign group Privacy International warns that privacy concerns extend beyond the social network. "The current focus is on protecting your data being exploited by third parties, but your data is being exploited all the time," said a spokeswoman. "Many apps on your phone will have permission to access location data, your entire phone book and so on. It is just the tip of the iceberg." 

[w529] Cambridge Analytica bosses secretly filmed 'boasting of dirty tricks to manipulate elections'The company’s chief Alexander Nix, right, and managing director of CA Political Global Mark Turnbull, left, were filmed at a series of meetings last year   ES News Email  Enter your email address or register with your social account  I would like to receive lunchtime headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Continue Already have an account? Log in Ad Placements Start Senior executives at Cambridge Analytica were secretly filmed apparently boasting that they could entrap politicians in compromising positions with bribes and Ukranian sex workers, a new investigation has claimed. In an undercover investigation by Channel 4 News, senior executives from the British firm which credits itself with Donald Trump ’s presidential election victory, are filmed claiming they also used ex-spies to dig dirt on political opponents. It comes as the data company is embroiled in a scandal over allegations it harvested personal details from more than 50 million Facebook users. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman said the firm entirely refutes any allegation that it or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes or so-called “honey-traps”.  Mr Nix said the company has 'a long history of working behind the scenes' (Channel 4 News) In the Channel 4 News investigation broadcast on Monday, the company’s chief Alexander Nix was filmed saying the British firm has “a long history of working behind the scenes”, and suggested the company could go incognito by setting up fake IDs and websites. He was also recorded saying the firm operates using sub-contractors from Britain and Israel. The admissions were filmed at a series of meetings at London hotels over four months, between November 2017 and January 2018, where an undercover reporter for Channel 4 News posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. Channel 4 claimed the executives boasted in the meetings that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL) had worked in more than two hundred elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India and Argentina. January 2018, at the Berkeley Hotel:   Reporter: “It has to be the deep digging and what we want to know is what is the expertise of the deep digging that you can do to make sure that the people know the true identity and secrets of the people? Mr Nix: “Oh, we do a lot more than that. I mean deep digging is interesting but you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true, and make sure that that’s video recorded, you know, these sorts of tactics are very effective instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things.” Reporter: “And the operative you will use for this is who?” Mr Nix: “Well someone known to us.” Reporter: “OK so it is somebody, you won’t use a Sri Lankan person no because there’s issue.” Mr Nix: “No. No, no, we’ll have a wealthy developer come in, somebody posing as a wealthy developer.” Mr Turnbull: “I’m a master of disguise.” Mr Nix: “Yes.  They will offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, we’ll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet.” Reporter: “So on Facebook or YouTube, or something like this?” In one filmed discussion about digging up material on political opponents, Mr Nix said they could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house”, adding that Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well”. In another he said: “We’ll offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, we’ll have the whole thing recorded, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the Internet.” Offering bribes to public officials is an offence under both the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cambridge Analytica operates in the UK and is registered in the United States. The meetings also included Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, and the company’s chief data officer, Dr Alex Tayler.  Dr Alex , the company's chief data officer, right, was also present at some of the meetings (Channel 4 News) Mr Turnbull was filmed describing how the company has “relationships and partnerships with specialist organisations” to gather dirt on the opposition. In one meeting he said: “... we just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control. It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘that’s propaganda’, because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda’, the next question is, ‘who’s put that out?’”. The firm was recently suspended from the social network site Facebook amid claims it passed personal data from Facebook apps without the consent of the individuals. Whistleblower Chris Wylie, a former research director at Cambridge Analytica, told Channel 4 News a so-called data grab had been carried out on more than 50 million profiles in 2014. January 2018 at the Berkeley Hotel:   Mr Nix: “Send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things.” ... Reporter: “For example you’re saying when you’re using the girls to introduce to the local fellow and you’re using the girls for this, like the seduction, they’re not local girls?  Not Sri Lankan girls?” Mr Nix: “I wouldn’t have thought so no, we’ll bring some, I mean it was just an idea, I’m just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know, you know what I’m saying.” Reporter: “They are very beautiful Ukrainian girls.” Mr Nix: “They are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” … Mr Nix: “And the answers are hypothetical and that’s really important is, is please don’t pay too much attention to what I’m saying because I’m just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done.  The right solution will be made for the right, for your problem.” Reports in The Observer suggested that the information was used to target political advertising in the 2016 US presidential election. Cambridge Analytica played a key role in mapping out the behaviour of voters in the run-up to the 2016 US election and was also used during the EU referendum campaign earlier that year. On Monday, the UK's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham confirmed she will apply for a warrant to search computers and servers used by the firm to examine its activities. It comes amid concerns at Westminster over the firm's activities.  Prime Minister Theresa May's official spokesman called on Facebook and Cambridge Analytica to co-operate fully with the investigation by the data watchdog into the alleged use of data from users of the social media giant.  Facebook suspends London firm over alleged mass data harvesting Tonight, a Cambridge Analytica spokesman said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called “honey-traps” for any purpose whatsoever…” They said: “Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose.” And they insisted that opposition research and intelligence gathering, the use of subcontractors, working discreetly with clients and the use of encrypted communications are all common practice and legitimate. The clips form Part Two of Channel 4 News’ series called ‘Data, Democracy and Dirty Tricks’. Part One featured an exclusive television interview with Mr Wylie, who revealed the company was set up at the instigation of former Breitbart executive director Steve Bannon with the financial backing of billionaire Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah. 

[w531] Cambridge Analytica bragged about using fake news, bribes, and Ukrainian women to influence elections – VICE Cambridge Analytica bragged about using fake news, bribes, and Ukrainian women to influence elections By David Gilbert Mar 19, 2018 An undercover sting by Channel 4 News has revealed that executives from Cambridge Analytica boasted that they could entrap politicians with Ukrainian sex workers, offer bribes to public officials, and use former spies to dig dirt on political opponents. The report reveals CEO Alexander Nix and other Cambridge Analytica executives admitting to using a range of underhanded tactics in order to sway the outcome of more than 200 elections around the globe, secretly campaigning through a web of shadowy front companies and sub-contractors. Channel 4’s reporter posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka, meeting the company’s executives five times over the course of three months. On Monday, a Cambridge Analytica spokesperson said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” But that's not exactly what Cambridge Analytica executives said on camera: Read more An undercover sting by Channel 4 News has revealed that executives from Cambridge Analytica boasted that they could entrap politicians with Ukrainian sex workers, offer bribes to public officials, and use former spies to dig dirt on political opponents. The report reveals CEO Alexander Nix and other Cambridge Analytica executives admitting to using a range of underhanded tactics in order to sway the outcome of more than 200 elections around the globe, secretly campaigning through a web of shadowy front companies and sub-contractors. Channel 4’s reporter posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka, meeting the company’s executives five times over the course of three months. On Monday, a Cambridge Analytica spokesperson said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” But that's not exactly what Cambridge Analytica executives said on camera: Send in the girls One of the most stunning revelations by Nix was his willingness to use sex workers to gather dirt on a clients’ opponents, and use the information to discredit them online. When asked about digging up material on political opponents, Nix said they could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things” adding that Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” Read: 12 Cambridge Analytica employees were embedded in the Trump campaign Nix suggests that it would be better not to use Sri Lankan girls in the operation, but bring Ukranian girls with them. “I mean it was just an idea, I’m just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know, you know what I’m saying,” he said. Blackmail Another possibility suggested by Nix involves setting a victim up and leveraging the incriminating evidence to remove an opponent from the campaign. “We’ll offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, we’ll have the whole thing recorded, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet," he said. In an ironic twist Nix even suggests that one of the most effective ways of undermining your enemies is to secretly film them admitting to corruption. “[What is] equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true, and make sure that that’s video recorded, you know, these sorts of tactics are very effective instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things.” “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow” Offering bribes to public officials is an offense under both the U.K. Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cambridge Analytica operates in the U.K. and is registered in the U.S. Bloodstream of the internet While the practices Nix describes are relatively crude in their approach, the company also offered much more subtle approaches, which left no trace but were just as effective. Mark Turnbull, managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division told the reporter "we just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again … like a remote control.” Turnbull added that this “has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘that’s propaganda’ because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda,’ the next question is, ‘who’s put that out?’” He later adds: “So we have to be very subtle, and we’ve got time to do this.” Shadow operations Despite being widely known about, the reach of Cambridge Analytica’s operations were not fully understood until now, given that they boast of impacting more than 200 elections around the world. The reason is that the company uses an extensive range of tactics to hide their fingerprints on any operation they conduct. “So often we set up, if we are working then we can set up fake IDs and websites, we can be students doing research projects attached to a university, we can be tourists, there are so many options we can look at. I have lots of experience in this,” Nix said. Turnbull added at a separate meeting that operations are run “so that no record exists with our name attached to this at all, and I think we can work in that space as well.” Intelligence gathering When the reporter asks if Cambridge Analytica offers intelligence gathering services, Turnbull says the company has “partnerships with specialist organizations that do that kind of, that do that kind of work. So that, you can, you know who the opposition is, you know their secrets, you know their tactics.” At another meeting, Turnbull says the people who they work with at ex-MI5 operatives who work with “private organizations whose job is to gather research. “They will find all the skeletons in his closet quietly, discreetly, and give you a report,” he said. Contradiction Turnbull appears to have contradicted himself about the scope of the operation Cambridge Analytica offers to their clients. In a December meeting with the reporter, Turnbull says: “So we’re not in the business of fake news, we’re not in the business of lying, making stuff up, and we’re not in the business of entrapment, so we wouldn’t, we wouldn’t send a pretty girl out to seduce a politician and then film them in their bedroom and then release the film. There are companies that do this but to me that crosses a line.” Yet a month later he was present when Nix laid out the possibility of using prostitutes to entrap local officials as well as offering bribe. In the January meeting he proclaims: “I’m a master of disguise” when referring to the possibility of having someone pose as a wealthy developer.  


[w532]  Cambridge Analytica’s CEO was caught by Channel 4 offering to meddle in elections using sex workers and bribes. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica Was Caught on Video Offering to Meddle in Elections Using Sex Workers and Fake Bribes By       A screenshot from the Channel 4 video with Alex Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, his colleagues, and an undercover reporter. Channel 4 screenshot  Cambridge Analytica, the political-data firm hired by the Trump campaign that’s been implicated in a scandal involving the illegitimate harvesting of more than 50 million Facebook user profiles, did not improve its public standing Monday. That’s because Britain’s Channel 4 posted a video showing Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix describing a series of salacious and corrupt tactics for hire to a reporter pretending to be a fixer for a client who wanted to influence elections in Sri Lanka.   When asked about digging up opposition research on another candidate, Nix reportedly offered to “send some girls around to the candidate’s house,” specifically Ukrainian girls, whom Nix said “are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” That wasn’t the only staged scandal Nix offered to set up for the prospective client. “We’ll offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance,” he told the reporter. “We’ll have the whole thing recorded; we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet.”   In the video, Nix is joined by his colleagues Max Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global (an arm of Cambridge Analytica), and the company’s chief data officer, Alex Tayler. They described working on more than 200 elections, often “in the shadows,” as Nix put it in one exchange. The team then went into detail about how the incendiary information they collect and sometimes stage is then weaponized in a political campaign.   “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again … like a remote control,” said Turnbull. “It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘That’s propaganda,’ because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda,’ the next question is, ‘Who’s put that out?’ ” The undercover investigation occurred between November 2017 and January 2018, according to Channel 4.  Watch the video from Channel 4 of their reporter meeting with officials from Cambridge Analytica:    This news comes days after Facebook shared that it had suspended the account of Cambridge Analytica, as well as the account a Russian-American psychology professor at the University of Cambridge named Aleksandr Kogan, who was contracted by Cambridge Analytica to build a Facebook personality survey app called “thisisyourdigitiallife” that was used to mine the personal information of the roughly 270,000 respondents who took the quiz. At the time, Facebook’s developer policies allowed app-makers to collect user data not just from those who gave permission to app to do so but also from their friends. And people on Facebook may have hundreds or even thousands of friends, which was likely how Cambridge Analytica was able to reportedly collect data on about 50 million Facebook users.  Facebook says that although it permitted the data collection at the time, Kogan wasn’t permitted to share the data he harvested with Cambridge Analytica and sent a request to Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to destroy the wrongfully shared user data back in 2015. Although the social media company says it got confirmation of the deletions, it recently learned that didn’t actually happen. The New York Times reports its journalists saw a portion of the data that at least recently still existed.   Cambridge Analytica claims on its website that it’s able create psychological profiles to “effectively engage and persuade voters using specially tailored language and visual ad combinations” that appeal to each person on an emotional level,” and that the company has “up to 5,000 data points on over 230 million American voters.” It’s not clear where, besides Facebook, the company gets its voter data.  Facebook knew about Cambridge Analytica’s holding of targeted user data back in 2015, when the Guardian reported that the then-presidential contender Ted Cruz, who was a client of Cambridge Analytica, was targeting voters using data harvested from tens of millions of Facebook users without their knowledge with the data firm’s help. Facebook confirmed in August 2016 that data from Kogan’s app collected and misused data from the company and that Facebook was taking efforts to delete it. Still, Facebook didn’t alert Facebook users, and now the company actually employs one of Kogan’s associates, Joseph Chancellor, who worked with the Cambridge professor to start Global Science Research, the company that Kogan used to contract with Cambridge Analytica.  Politicians from both sides of the aisle now are calling for Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify to Congress about his company’s data-collection practices and how Russian operatives, as well as U.S. candidates’ campaign operatives, instrumentalized the platform and wrongfully collected user data from Facebook to manipulate voters.  And now, with footage of Cambridge Analytica’s CEO describing shady, potentially illegal tactics, in other political campaigns, anyone with even the loosest ties to the company’s work should brace for more scrutiny, too.


[w533] The murky world of Cambridge Analytica  The murky world of Cambridge Analytica Tuesday: Investigation reveals tactics of the company accused of using Facebook data to influence elections. Plus: call for affordable housing plan by  Tuesday: Investigation reveals tactics of the company accused of using Facebook data to influence elections. Plus: call for affordable housing plan by  Morning mail: The murky world of Cambridge Analytica Mon 19 Mar 2018 First published on Mon 19 Mar 2018     Good morning, this is Eleanor Ainge Roy bringing you the main stories and must-reads on Tuesday 20 March. Top stories The company at the centre of the Facebook data mining scandal boasted of using honey traps, fake news campaigns and operations with ex-spies to swing election campaigns around the world. Executives from Cambridge Analytica spoke to undercover reporters from Channel 4 News and told them they had helped their clients by entrapping rival candidates in fake bribery stings and hiring prostitutes to seduce them, then videotaping encounters to use as leverage. The company chief executive, Alexander Nix, said: “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true as long as they’re believed.” Any work may have stayed out of the spotlight partly because Cambridge Analytica works hard to cover traces of its operations, Nix said, using a shifting network of names and front groups. On Sunday the Observer reported that Cambridge Analytica had made unauthorised use of tens of millions of Facebook profiles . The company, and Nix, are under pressure from politicians in the US and the UK to explain how it handled the data and what role the information may have played in election campaigns. 


[w534] Facebook’s security chief to depart role over company’s handling of misinformation Facebook’s security chief to depart role over company’s handling of misinformation [Updated] CSO Alex Stamos clashed with other executives over handling of Russian meddling. Facebook CSO Alex Stamos tweeted the following on Monday evening in the wake of The New York Times report: Despite the rumors, I'm still fully engaged with my work at Facebook. It's true that my role did change. I'm currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security. We have updated the story accordingly. Original story: Alex Stamos, Facebook's chief information security officer, will shift roles at the company. His transition will come in the wake of disagreements with other Facebook executives like COO Sheryl Sandberg about how to investigate and disclose Russian activity on the platform, The New York Times reports , citing employees of the social network. Stamos advocated for greater disclosure. Prior to his hiring at Facebook in 2015, Stamos was Chief Information Security Officer at Yahoo. Personnel on Stamos' security team—which previously numbered 120 but is now down to three—are being gradually transferred to the product and infrastructure divisions within Facebook, under his supervision. The NYT report suggests that this has been part of his responsibilities since December, when his normal day-to-day responsibilities as CSO were reassigned. He was asked by Facebook to stay through August for optics. Stamos is currently working in a new role in the company. "I'm currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security," he tweeted . He has not commented on any future plans to depart the organization entirely—a tweet clarifying his role after The New York Times  report did not dispute the report's claim that he is leaving Facebook in August. This news broke shortly after Facebook came under intense scrutiny over the inappropriate acquisition of its user data by Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm involved in elections in both the US and the UK. Stamos took to Twitter to defend the company—in particular, he sought to clarify that this was not a "data breach." He also said in a tweet that has since been deleted: It should be noted that several other prominent platforms, like Android and iOS, allow access to friend (contact) data with user permission. Like us, those platforms have policies about the use of data, but misusing contacts gathered knowingly from a phone is also not a "breach". Stamos later deleted those tweets, saying he "should have done a better job weighing in." Echoing some of the concerns that reportedly led to his departure from the role, he later tweeted : There are a lot of big problems that the big tech companies need to be better at fixing. We have collectively been too optimistic about what we build and our impact on the world. Believe it or not, a lot of the people at these companies, from the interns to the CEOs, agree.

[w535]Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections  Cambridge Analytica caught in undercover sting boasting about entrapping politicians - video The company at the centre of the Facebook data breach boasted of using honey traps, fake news campaigns and operations with ex-spies to swing election campaigns around the world, a new investigation reveals. Executives from Cambridge Analytica spoke to undercover reporters from Channel 4 News about the dark arts used by the company to help clients, which included entrapping rival candidates in fake bribery stings and hiring prostitutes to seduce them. In one exchange, the company chief executive, Alexander Nix, is recorded telling reporters: “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true as long as they’re believed.” The Channel 4 News investigation, broadcast on Monday, comes two days after the Observer reported Cambridge Analytica had unauthorised access to tens of millions of Facebook profiles in one of the social media company’s biggest data breaches. Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica  Name Alexander James Ashburner Nix Age 42 Education Eton, then Manchester University, where he  studied history of art Career Nix worked as a financial analyst in Mexico and the UK before joining SCL, a strategic communications firm, in 2003. From 2007 he took over the company’s elections division, and claims to have worked on  more than 40 campaigns  globally. Many of SCL’s projects are secret, so that may be a low estimate. He set up Cambridge Analytica to work in America, with investment from US hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer. He has been both hailed as a visionary – featuring on  Wired’s list  of “25 Geniuses who are creating the future of business” – and derided as a  snake oil salesman . Controversies Cambridge Analytica has come under scrutiny for its role in elections on both sides of the Atlantic, working on Brexit and Donald Trump’s election team. It is a key subject in two inquiries in the UK – by the Electoral Commission, into the firm’s possible role in the EU referendum, and the Information Commissioner’s Office, into data analytics for political purposes – and one in the US, as part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Trump-Russia collusion. The Observer revealed this week that the company had harvested millions of  Facebook  profiles of US voters, in one of the tech giant’s biggest ever data breaches, and used them to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. Emma Graham-Harrison Photograph: The Washington Post Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. The company, and Nix, are under pressure from politicians in the US and the UK to explain how it handled the data and what role the information played in its campaigns, if any. Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer The Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham criticised Cambridge Analytica for being “unco-operative” with her investigation as she confirmed that her watchdog would apply for a warrant to help her examine the firm’s activities. Cambridge Analytica has sold itself as the ultimate hi-tech consultant, winning votes by using data to pinpoint target groups and design messages that will appeal powerfully to their interests, although it denies using Facebook information in its work. But in the undercover investigation by Channel 4 News, in association with the Observer, executives claimed to offer a much darker range of services. No 10 'very concerned' over Facebook data breach by Cambridge Analytica Read more In a series of meetings with a reporter posing as a representative of a wealthy Sri Lankan family seeking political influence, Cambridge Analytica executives initially denied the company was in the business of using entrapment techniques. But Nix later detailed the dirty tricks the company would be prepared to pull behind the scenes to help its clients. When the reporter asked if Cambridge Analytica could offer investigations into the damaging secrets of rivals, Nix said it worked with former spies from Britain and Israel to look for political dirt. He also volunteered that his team were ready to go further than an investigation. “Oh, we do a lot more than that,” he said over dinner at an exclusive hotel in London. “Deep digging is interesting, but you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true and make sure that that’s video recorded. “You know these sort of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption.” Nix suggested one possible scenario, in which the managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division, Mark Turnbull, would pose as a wealthy developer looking to exchange campaign finance for land. “I’m a master of disguise,” Turnbull said. Another option, Nix suggested, would be to create a sex scandal. “Send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things,” he told the reporter. “We could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us, you know what I’m saying.” He said these were hypothetical scenarios, but suggested his ideas were based on precedent. “Please don’t pay too much attention to what I’m saying, because I’m just giving you examples of what can be done, what has been done.” Any work may have stayed out of the spotlight partly because Cambridge Analytica works hard to cover traces of its operations, Nix said, using a shifting network of names and front groups. “We’re used to operating through different vehicles, in the shadows, and I look forward to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you,” Nix told the source in a first phone call. Cambridge Analytica sometimes contracts under a different name, so that there are no records of its involvement, Turnbull said. That does not only protect the company, but also makes its work more efficient, he is recorded saying. “It has to happen without anyone thinking it’s propaganda, because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda’ the next question is: ‘Who’s put that out?’” What are the files? He added: “It may be that we have to contract under a different name ... a different entity, with a different name, so that no record exists with our name attached to this at all.” In a recent project in eastern Europe, the company sent a team but “no one even knew they were there, they were just ghosted in, did the work, ghosted out”, Turnbull said. Covers include the setting up of fake academic projects, sometimes simply going in on tourist visas, as former employees have told the Guardian they did for US elections – apparently employed in violation of Federal law. Nix also offered details regarding the services of professional ex-spies from Britain and Israel. “We have two projects at the moment, which involve doing deep deep depth research on the opposition and providing source ... really damaging source material, that we can decide how to deploy in the course of the campaign.” Denham told Channel 4 News that she had issued a demand for access to Cambridge Analytica earlier this month. They were given until 6pm on Monday to respond to it, but she said the company had been “unco-operative” with the investigation and that she would be applying to the courts on Tuesday for a warrant. “We need to get in there. We need to look at the databases. We need to look at the servers and understand how data was processed or deleted by Cambridge Analytica. There are a lot of conflicting stories about the data,” she said. Cambridge Analytica said the Channel 4 News investigation contained false claims, factual inaccuracies and substantial mischaracterisations. It accused Channel 4 of setting out to entrap staff by initiating a conversation about unethical practices. It rejected any suggestion that the company used fake news, honey traps, bribes or entrapment. It said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Anlytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever … Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose.” Of the suggestions they used honey trap techniques, the company said: “Our executives humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to further disclose his intentions.” Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video In a later statement Cambridge Analytica accused Channel 4 News of attempting to entrap its executives by initiating a conversation about unethical practices, which it insisted the company did not use. Admitting he misjudged the situation, Nix said: “In playing along with this line of conversation … we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios. I am aware how this looks … I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner.” On Saturday, Cambridge Analytica denied it had done anything wrong in relation to the handling of Facebook data. “Cambridge Analytica only receives and uses data that has been obtained legally and fairly. Our robust data protection policies comply with US, international, European Union, and national regulations,” it said. 


[w536]     CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA CEO Alexander Nix has been suspended after a second Channel 4 report showed him claiming credit for the election of Donald Trump.  The report, which aired on Tuesday , saw Nix boasting of running the "digital campaign" for Trump's election team, helping him to secure "tens of thousands" of votes in three crucial states. He also admitted to using encrypted email service ProtonMail to proactively delete potential evidence.  Shortly after the report aired, Cambridge Analytica announced in a statement that Nix would be suspended pending a "full, independent investigation".  "In the view of the board, Mr Nix's recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation," the company said. "We have asked Dr Alexander Tayler to serve as acting CEO while an independent investigation is launched to review those comments and allegations." Tayler is the chief data scientist at SCL Group, Cambridge Analytica's parent company, where Nix still serves as director.  In a separate statement, Cambridge Analytica said it was cooperating with the ICO , which this week obtained an urgent warrant to access the company's servers. "Since early last year we have subsequently cooperated with the ICO on multiple lines of enquiry," the firm said, despite the ICO's claims that it had received no response from Cambridge Analytica. Meanwhile, in Silicon Valley, Zuckerberg has yet to come out of hiding, despite being summoned by UK parliament to give evidence over the "catastrophic failure of process" behind the Cambridge Analytica data breach. Facebook issued a statement claiming that "Mark, Sheryl and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward because they understand the seriousness of this issue." It added that "the entire company is outraged we were deceived," despite claims that Facebook knew about the "unprecedented" data harvesting by late-2015. Things are going from bad to worse for the company too, as Brian Acton, co-founder of WhatsApp ( which was, er, acquired by Facebook in 2014 ) joining the #deletefacebook movement on Twitter. Facebook, so far, has lost around $50bn since news of the data breach broke over the weekend, and with both the ICO and US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) launching investigations into the firm, it's losses are probably going to get a lot worse. 20/3/18: The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is seeking an urgent warrant to access the servers of Cambridge Analytica, which allegedly used data mined from 50 million Facebook users to influence 2016's presidential election. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham confirmed the move to Channel 4, which on Monday aired a documentary ( below ) that showed Cambridge Analytics execs - including CEO Alexander Nix - boasting about entrapping politicians, using honey traps and running fake news campaigns. "We need to get in there, we need to look at the databases, we need to look at the servers and understand how data was processed or deleted by Cambridge Analytica," Denham said.  Denham also demanded that Facebook halt a data audit of Cambridge Analytica, saying it could prejudice her investigation. Security consultants from Stroz Friedberg, who had been called in by Facebook to do the audit, were in Cambridge Analytica's London offices on Monday but were ordered to leave by the ICO. Many have questioned Facebook's motives, with culture select committee chair, Damian Collins telling the BBC : "Facebook sent in data analysts and lawyers who they appointed, what they intended to do there, who knows? "The concern would have been, were they removing information or evidence which could have been vital to the investigation? It's right they stood down but it's astonishing they were there in the first place." In response to Channel 4's extraordinary documentary, Cambridge Analytics said, seemingly without any sense of irony: "Assessing the legality and reputational risks associated with new projects is critical for us, and we routinely undertake conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions. "The two Cambridge Analytica executives at the meeting humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions." While things could get much worse for Facebook - with CEO Mark Zuckerberg yet to come out of hiding since the scandal first broke over the weekend - it was also reported on Monday that the firm's chief information security officer Alex Stamos will leave the social networking giant by August. The New York Times reports that Stamos "disagreed" with other Facebook execs over the company's approach to Russian influence campaigns. Stamos had "advocated more disclosure around Russian interference of the platform and some restructuring to better address the issues", the NYT reports, but was met with resistance by colleagues. In a Twitter post, Stamos  confirmed  that his "role did change," but that he's also still "fully engaged" with work at Facebook. He didn't definitively say whether or not he was leaving the company. 19/3/18: Data crunching firm Cambridge Analytica has been suspended from Facebook amid claims it illegally harvested data from 50 million users without their consent. Revelations by whistleblower Chris Wylie, first published in  The Observer  and  The New York Times , claims Cambridge Analytica obtained the data via Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan. Through his company Global Science Research, in collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, Kogan built an app called 'thisisyourdigitallife' that paid hundreds of thousands of   Facebook   users to take a personality test and agree to have their data collected for academic use. The app, however, also collected the information of the test-takers' Facebook friends, something allowed by Facebook until 2015, which lead to the accumulation of a data pool "tens of millions-strong".  Kogan, who worked with Wylie to obtain the data, then sold the information to Cambridge Analytica, according to The Observer, a move that went against Facebook's 'platform policy' that only allowed for the collection of friends' data to improve the user experience. "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on," Wylie, former research director at Cambridge Analytica, said. This data was then turned into information used by the likes of Steve Bannon and the Donald Trump Campaign to "micro-target" individuals based on shared characteristics. The Observer describes this as one of Facebook's "biggest ever data breaches" with the stolen information used "to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box". Documents seen by the newspaper show that Facebook knew about the "unprecedented" data harvesting by late-2015, but failed to alert users and took only "limited steps" to recover and secure the private information. In response to the revelations, Facebook  announced  that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica and Kogan from the platform, pending further information over misuse of data. Cambridge Analytica has denied any wrongdoing and says that its parent company Strategic Communication Laboratories [SCL] hired Kogan to undertake "a large-scale research project in the US", none of which was used in the firm's 2016 election work. Facebook said in a statement that "the claim that this is a data breach is completely false". It added: "Aleksandr Kogan requested and gained access to information from users who chose to sign up to his app, and everyone involved gave their consent. "People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked." That isn't going to stop the firm from facing investigations, though, with both the Electoral Commission and Information Commissioner's Office announcing on Saturday that they would be looking into whether Facebook data had been "illegally acquired and used". Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said: "We are investigating the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used. "It's part of our ongoing investigation into the use of data analytics for political purposes which was launched to consider how political parties and campaigns, data analytics companies and social media platforms in the UK are using and analysing people's personal information to micro-target voters." In the US, Massachusetts attorney general Maura Healey also announced her office is opening an investigation into the social networking site. 

[w537] Democrats Plan to Question Professor at Center of Facebook–Cambridge Analytica Scandal  Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, answers brief questions from the media on February 5, 2018 at the U.S. Capitol. Photo: AP University of Cambridge professor Aleksandr Kogan told colleagues in an email this weekend that he’d volunteer to testify before Congress about his role in Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal , according to CNN. House and Senate Democrats are prepared to accept Dr. Kogan’s offer. According to Facebook, Dr. Kogan provided Cambridge Analytica—a political data analytics firm hired by President Donald Trump’s campaign and financed by billionaire Robert Mercer—access to information about 50 million Facebook users, all the while telling Facebook the data was being gathered for academic purposes. The firm reportedly used that data to create “psychographic” profiles on Americans, which it is said to have used to try to influence the American electorate in favor of the Trump campaign. Friday night, Facebook announced it had suspended the firm from Facebook, saying Cambridge Analytica had illegitimately obtained its data and failed to delete it when ordered to do so in 2015. Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, has already invited Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie to provide testimony. “Revelations that Cambridge Analytica secretly acquired the personal, private information of more than 50 million Facebook users without their permission or that of Facebook, must be thoroughly investigated,” he said. A Democratic committee aide told Gizmodo this afternoon that Schiff also plans to reach out to Dr. Kogan in coming days. Advertisement A Senate aide said that Sen. Mark Warner, vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, plans to invite Dr. Kogan to testify as well. Facebook Will Audit Cambridge Analytica to Find Out If It Still Has Scraped Profile Data [Updated] Cambridge Analytica, the data analytics firm that worked on Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential… Read more “Reports that an American professor with links to Russia was at the center of this illicit transfer of information raises further questions, which the Committee must investigate,” Schiff said. He added that his committee had not had the opportunity to speak with “numerous” Cambridge Analytica employees, despite requests, and said they must now be brought in for interviews. Advertisement In Dr. Kogan’s email (obtained by CNN ) he told his colleagues: “I’ve also seriously been asked if the FBI has reached out, if the two congressional committees in the United States have reached out, and if Parliament or any authorities in the UK have reached out. No one has—I suspect they realize I’m actually not a spy. Though if anyone does, I’d be more than happy to testify and speak candidly about the project.” A biography of Dr. Kogan—who temporary changed his last name to Spectre at some point, according various reports—appears to have disappeared from the University of Cambridge Department of Psychology website in the last week. His profile on the Cambridge Neuroscience page remains online , however. The University of Cambridge, which, despite its name, is not affiliate with Cambridge Analytica in any way, has asked Facebook to supply it with “all relevant evidence” related to Dr. Kogan gifting the political firm its data. Advertisement “It is not uncommon for Cambridge academics to have business interests, but they must satisfy the University that these are held in a personal capacity and that there are no conflicts of interest,” a University spokesperson said. They added that Dr. Kogan had previously given assurances that no University data or resources had been used for his commercial enterprise, Global Science Research (GSR), the company that collaborated with Cambridge Analytica, where Dr. Kogan is director. Sen. Ron Wyden, also a member of the Senate Intelligence Committe, sent Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg a letter on Monday with a series of questions about the misuse of its data. The Oregon senator asked Facebook for example whether it has made any attempt to notify the 50 million users impacted, and to specify whether other third parties have used Facebook’s data in violation of its policies over the last decade. Advertisement Facebook, which contends it has no way of knowing whether the data was used to help the Trump Campaign, would not say whether it intends to respond to Sen. Wyden’s questions. VP and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal told Gizmodo: “We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information.” Got a 

[w538] Cambridge Analytica secretly filmed saying it can entrap politicians The CEO of Cambridge Analytica was secretly filmed offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers      Channel 4 News secretly filmed Cambridge Analytica's CEO, Alexander Nix, offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers. The bombshell investigation also shows Cambridge Analytica's executives acknowledging that it discreetly seeded compromising videos of politicians on the internet and helped them go viral. Cambridge Analytica has pushed back on allegations that it uses entrapment tactics. In a statement, Nix said he played along with the undercover reporter, who he thought was a client, to spare them from embarrassment. The company was recently suspended by Facebook over a huge data scandal. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , has been secretly filmed offering shadowy services to entrap politicians. The bombshell footage, broadcast Monday as part of an investigation by Channel 4 News, comes days after Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica over an incident involving its harvesting of data from 50 million profiles. An undercover Channel 4 News reporter filmed the data firm's CEO, Alexander Nix, and his colleagues over four meetings from November to January. The journalist posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. In one exchange filmed in January, Nix said Cambridge Analytica could send "somebody posing as a wealthy developer" to Sri Lanka to offer incumbent politicians a "large amount of money" in a "deal that's too good to be true," such as for land. Advertisement "We'll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we'll blank out the face of our guy, and then post it on the internet," Nix said on camera. "These sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption," he added. Offering bribes to public officials is an offense under both the UK's Bribery Act and the US's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cambridge Analytica operates in the UK and is registered in the US. At the same meeting at London's five-star Berkeley Hotel, Nix said Cambridge Analytica could "send some girls around to the candidate's house — we have lots of history of things." He added: "That was just an idea. I'm just saying we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us, you know. You know what I'm saying."        Advertisement In the footage, Mark Turnbull, the managing director of Cambridge Analytica Political Global, also described the company's process of discreetly seeding compromising videos on the internet and helping them go viral. At a meeting in December, Turnbull told Channel 4's reporter: "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then — and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again … like a remote control." He also said: "It has to happen without anyone thinking 'that's propaganda,' because the moment you think 'that's propaganda,' the next question is 'who's put that out?'" Channel 4 News' investigation also accuses Cambridge Analytica of using "shadowy front companies" or subcontractors to achieve its aims.        Advertisement You can watch excerpts from the secret filming below. According to Channel 4 News, the executives also boasted that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, Strategic Communications Laboratories Group, had worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including in Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India, and Argentina. Cambridge Analytica also worked for Donald Trump's presidential campaign in 2016. Business Insider contacted Cambridge Analytica more than two hours before the Channel 4 investigation was broadcast, and a spokesman said it was "hard to reply to something we haven't seen." But Business Insider understands that Channel 4 News sent the data firm a 20-page document a week ago detailing the allegations and the contents of the undercover filming. The data firm told Channel 4 News, "We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called 'honey-traps' for any purpose whatsoever," adding that "Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose."        Advertisement A former Cambridge Analytica employee named Christopher Wylie recently detailed how the company harvested the Facebook data of millions of users and used the information to power software that helped target voters with personalized political advertising. Channel 4 News says it will broadcast further allegations later this week about Cambridge Analytica's work for the Trump campaign. Update: A Cambridge Analytica representative emailed Business Insider with the company's full statement soon after Channel 4 News' investigation aired on British television. It included a direct quote from Nix, saying he played along with the undercover reporter, who he thought was a client, to spare them from embarrassment. Read the statement in full:        Advertisement Cambridge Analytica held a series of meetings with the undercover reporter to discuss philanthropic, infrastructure, and political projects in Sri Lanka. While outlining the company's services as a data-driven communications and marketing agency, a senior Cambridge Analytica executive clearly set out the principles which govern its work and said the following to the undercover reporter: "We're not in the business of fake news, we're not in the business of lying, making stuff up, and we're not in the business of entrapment … There are companies that do this but to me that crosses a line." Despite this clear statement, the undercover reporter later attempted to entrap Cambridge Analytica executives by initiating a conversation about unethical practices. After several meetings discussing ostensibly legitimate projects, the reporter unexpectedly and suddenly turned the conversation towards practices such as corruption and the entrapment of political figures. Assessing the legality and reputational risks associated with new projects is critical for us, and we routinely undertake conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions. The two Cambridge Analytica executives at the meeting humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions. They left with grave concerns and did not meet with him again. We use meetings like this to make an informed decision about those whom we should or shouldn't engage with, in line with the guidance laid out by Section 9 of the UK Bribery Act 2010. The company's practice is for staff to gently de-escalate the conversation before removing themselves from the situation. However, CEO Alexander Nix acknowledges that on this occasion he misjudged the situation:        Advertisement "In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our 'client' from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios. I am aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called 'honeytraps,' and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose. "I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner." Cambridge Analytica is a high-profile company. While we work for clients from all sides of the political mainstream across many countries, some do not want it known that they are using a professional political consultancy. We understand this and allow our clients to work with us discreetly. This is not unusual in the industry. Like any marketing agency, Cambridge Analytica uses social media platforms for placing paid advertisements and organic content. Influencer marketing and building grassroots networks on social media are both common activities for a modern political campaign. Everything you need to know about Christopher Wylie, the 28-year-old who blew the lid off a huge Facebook data breach Cambridge Analytica Facebook Christopher Wylie      

[w539]          Monday episodes of Late Night with Seth Meyers are a special treat. Back in the pre-Trump era, the show’s “A Closer Look” segments were often reserved for a John-Oliver-style piece on a single topic (hence the title, presumably). But they’ve long since been broadened into “Weekend Update” type overviews in an attempt to keep up with the manic pace of our national implosion. On Mondays, Meyers has three days of new developments to cram in, and the result is as much fun as watching Lucy and Ethel at the candy factory . Meyers acknowledges the challenge, opening the segment by ruefully shaking his head and exclaiming, “Man, crazy shit happens so fast in this presidency, sometimes it feels like I’m binge watching it.” Here’s a brief rundown of everything he takes a closer look at:   • The president suing Stormy Daniels. • Trump’s inconsistency about how well he knows Putin. • Facebook suspending Cambridge Analytica. • Trump’s Twitter tirade against Robert Mueller. • Trump’s tweets about Andrew McCabe. • Trump firing McCabe. • Trump firing James Comey. • McCabe’s claim that he has memos about his meetings with Trump and Trump’s reaction. • Trump’s incentives and possible consequences if he fires Robert Mueller.  That is a lot to cram into nine minutes of late night television, and it’s a tribute to Meyers that he makes it through so much news and necessary context while still finding time to make a joke about the president hiring lawyers named “Harder” and “Stonerock” to sue an adult actress. But it doesn’t seem like the pace of the news is likely to slow down soon, so sooner or later, the show will have to either narrow its focus or hire the Micro Machine man . 


[w559]Facebook Exit Hints at Dissent on Handling of Russian Trolls As Facebook grapples with a backlash over its role in spreading disinformation, an internal dispute over how to handle the threat and the public outcry is resulting in the departure of a senior executive. The impending exit of that executive — Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer — reflects heightened leadership tension at the top of the social network. Much of the internal disagreement is rooted in how much Facebook should publicly share about how nation states misused the platform and debate over organizational changes in the run-up to the 2018 midterm elections, according to current and former employees briefed on the matter. Mr. Stamos, who plans to leave Facebook by August, had advocated more disclosure around Russian interference of the platform and some restructuring to better address the issues, but was met with resistance by colleagues, said the current and former employees. In December, Mr. Stamos’s day-to-day responsibilities were reassigned to others, they said. Mr. Stamos said he would leave Facebook but was persuaded to stay through August to oversee the transition of his responsibilities and because executives thought his departure would look bad, the people said. He has been overseeing the transfer of his security team to Facebook’s product and infrastructure divisions. His group, which once had 120 people, now has three, the current and former employees said. Mr. Stamos would be the first high-ranking employee to leave Facebook since controversy over disinformation on its site. Company leaders — including Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer — have struggled to address a growing set of problems , including Russian interference on the platform, the rise of false news and the disclosure over the weekend that 50 million of its user profiles had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, a voter-profiling company. ■ More about how Cambridge Analytica collected Facebook data . ■ The growing outcry on two continents over Facebook’s role in misuse of data. The developments have taken a toll internally, said the seven people briefed on the matter, who asked not to be identified because the proceedings were confidential. Some of the company’s executives are weighing their own legacies and reputations as Facebook’s image has taken a beating. Several believe the company would have been better off saying little about Russian interference and note that other companies, such as Twitter, which have stayed relatively quiet on the issue, have not had to deal with as much criticism. One central tension at Facebook has been that of the legal and policy teams versus the security team. The security team generally pushed for more disclosure about how nation states had misused the site, but the legal and policy teams have prioritized business imperatives, said the people briefed on the matter. “The people whose job is to protect the user always are fighting an uphill battle against the people whose job is to make money for the company,” said Sandy Parakilas, who worked at Facebook enforcing privacy and other rules until 2012 and now advises a nonprofit organization called the Center for Humane Technology , which is looking at the effect of technology on people. Mr. Stamos said in statement on Monday, “These are really challenging issues, and I’ve had some disagreements with all of my colleagues, including other executives.” On Twitter, he said he was “still fully engaged with my work at Facebook” and acknowledged that his role has changed, without addressing his future plans. Facebook did not have a comment on the broader issues around Mr. Stamos’s departure. Mr. Stamos joined Facebook from Yahoo in June 2015. He and other Facebook executives, such as Ms. Sandberg, disagreed early on over how proactive the social network should be in policing its own platform, said the people briefed on the matter. In his statement, Mr. Stamos said his relationship with Ms. Sandberg was “productive.” Mr. Stamos first put together a group of engineers to scour Facebook for Russian activity in June 2016, the month the Democratic National Committee announced it had been attacked by Russian hackers, the current and former employees said. By November 2016, the team had uncovered evidence that Russian operatives had aggressively pushed DNC leaks and propaganda on Facebook. That same month, Mr. Zuckerberg publicly dismissed the notion that fake news influenced the 2016 election, calling it a “pretty crazy idea.” In the ensuing months, Facebook’s security team found more Russian disinformation and propaganda on its site, according to the current and former employees. By the spring of 2017, deciding how much Russian interference to disclose publicly became a major source of contention within the company. Mr. Stamos pushed to disclose as much as possible, while others including Elliot Schrage, Facebook’s vice president of communications and policy, recommended not naming Russia without more ironclad evidence, said the current and former employees. A detailed memorandum Mr. Stamos wrote in early 2017 describing Russian interference was scrubbed for mentions of Russia and winnowed into a blog post last April that outlined, in hypothetical terms, how Facebook could be manipulated by a foreign adversary, they said. Russia was only referenced in a vague footnote. That footnote acknowledged that Facebook’s findings did not contradict a declassified January 2017 report in which the director of national intelligence concluded Russia had sought to undermine United States election, and Hillary Clinton in particular. Mr. Stamos said in his statement that “we decided that the responsible thing to do would be to make clear that our findings were consistent with those released by the U.S. intelligence community, which clearly connected the activity in their report to Russian state-sponsored actors.” But Facebook’s decision to omit Russia backfired. Weeks later, a Time magazine article revealed that Russia had created fake accounts and purchased fake ads to spread propaganda on the platform, allegations that Facebook initially denied. By last September, after Mr. Stamos’s investigation had revealed further Russian interference, Facebook was forced to reverse course. That month, the company disclosed that beginning in June 2015, Russians had paid Facebook $100,000 to run roughly 3,000 divisive ads to show the American electorate. In response, lawmakers like Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, said that although Facebook’s revelation was a good first step, “I’m disappointed it’s taken 10 months of raising this issue before they’ve become much more transparent.” And the revelation also prompted more attention into how Russians had manipulated the social network. Last October and November, Facebook was grilled in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill for Russian meddling on its platform, along with executives from Twitter and YouTube. The public reaction caused some at Facebook to recoil at revealing more, said the current and former employees. Since the 2016 election, Facebook has paid unusual attention to the reputations of Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg, conducting polls to track how they are viewed by the public, said Tavis McGinn, who was recruited to the company last April and headed the executive reputation efforts through September 2017. Mr. McGinn, who now heads Honest Data, which has done polling about Facebook’s reputation in different countries, said Facebook is “caught in a Catch-22.” “Facebook cares so much about its image that the executives don’t want to come out and tell the whole truth when things go wrong,” he said. “But if they don’t, it damages their image.” Mr. McGinn said he left Facebook after becoming disillusioned with the company’s conduct. By December 2017, Mr. Stamos, who reports to Facebook’s general counsel, proposed that he report directly to higher-ups. Facebook executives rejected that proposal and instead reassigned Mr. Stamos’s team, splitting the security team between its product team, overseen by Guy Rosen, and infrastructure team, overseen by Pedro Canahuati, according to current and former employees. Apart from managing a small team of engineers in San Francisco, Mr. Stamos has largely been left as Facebook’s security communicator. Last month, he appeared as Facebook’s representative at the Munich Security Conference. Over the weekend, after news broke that Cambridge Analytica had harvested data on as many as 50 million Facebook users, Facebook’s communications team encouraged Mr. Stamos to tweet in defense of the company, but only after it asked to approve Mr. Stamos’s tweets, according to two people briefed on the incident. After the tweets set off a furious response, Mr. Stamos deleted them. Roger B. McNamee, an early investor in Facebook who said he considered himself a mentor to Mr. Zuckerberg, said the company was failing to face the fundamental problems posed by the Russian meddling and other manipulation of content. “I told them, ‘Your business is based on trust, and you’re losing trust,’” said Mr. McNamee, a founder of the Center for Humane Technology. “They were treating it as a P.R. problem, when it’s a business problem. I couldn’t believe these guys I once knew so well had gotten so far off track.” 

[w560]  The exit of Alex Stamos reveals a troubling debate within Facebook.          Who Does Facebook Serve? The slow-motion exit of the company’s security chief has revealed a troubling internal debate over whether the social network should prioritize users or profits.  Alex Stamos reportedly argued that Facebook should disclose more information about Russian misbehavior on the platform during the 2016 election. He lost the debate. Win McNamee/Getty Images  Facebook’s head of security, Alex Stamos, is leaving the social network in August, according to the New York Times as well as multiple journalists citing sources within the company Monday evening. The Times reports that Stamos has already started to prepare for his exit, a slow-motion exodus that began last year following a push from Stamos and his security team for Facebook to be more forthcoming about how Russian operatives utilized the social network to attempt to influence voters during the 2016 election. Though Facebook was eventually forced to disclose information about that activity, Stamos reportedly lost the fight.   Why does the egress of a Facebook executive unknown to the vast majority of its users matter? Because of the awkward timing of the reporting—just days after Stamos struggled to publicly defend the company’s fraying reputation in the aftermath of its stunning disclosures involving the data firm Cambridge Analytica—and because of the internal debate that apparently led to Stamos’ exit in progress: It was between those who think Facebook should prioritize doing right by its users and those who think its first responsibility is to its profits.   Not that you got that sense listening to Stamos and Facebook on Monday night. Both said that the Times’ reporting is off—kinda. In a notable nondenial, Stamos wrote on Twitter : “Despite the rumors, I’m still fully engaged with my work at Facebook. It’s true that my role did change. I’m currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security.” Facebook issued a kind of nondenial of Stamos’ nondenial: “Alex Stamos continues to be the Chief Security Officer at Facebook. He has held the position for nearly three years and leads our security efforts especially around emerging security risks.”   News of Stamos’ departure comes as Facebook is grappling with a long string of public relations nightmares over the past year, the most recent being the company’s announcement this past Friday evening that it had suspended the accounts of the Trump-hired data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica and two others involved with firm—this in advance of damning reports from the Guardian and the New York Times . Those reports detailed how Facebook allowed for data on more than 50 million user profiles to be harvested and then passed to Cambridge Analytica, which ran voter-targeting operations for both Ted Cruz’s and then Donald Trump’s presidential campaigns. Facebook says that when it found out that user data had been improperly passed to Cambridge Analytica in 2015, it requested the company and its associates delete it and confirm that the data had been destroyed. After recently learning, more than two years later, that the data had not actually been destroyed, Facebook shared publicly that it was suspending the data firm and its associates’ accounts.    Immediately after sharing the news, Facebook started receiving criticism for not notifying tens of millions of users who had their profile data illegitimately handed over to a voter-targeting operation when it first learned of the incident. And Stamos, who has encouraged responsible disclosures of security missteps in the past, tweeted an attempt to rationalize the company’s data-security practices at the time, which allowed for app developers to scrape the Facebook data of their users and their users’ friends, the method by which associates working on behalf of Cambridge Analytica were likely able to collect Facebook data on tens of millions of people. With details of Stamos’ pending goodbye coming into focus Monday night, Facebook’s decision not to inform users that their data was improperly handed to Cambridge Analytica—on top of newly reported details about how Facebook delayed the disclosure of evidence the company had collected of Russian government –sponsored propaganda efforts on its site—the reputation of the security operation Stamos was tasked with managing is hurting. After all, Facebook’s users put a lot of trust in the company’s security every time they post a photo or missive, even if they don’t always think deeply about the privacy bargain they make in order to use a free service. That’s something that can’t sit well with Stamos, who is highly respected in the information security community for being a staunch advocate of working in the interest of users.   Tensions between Stamos and Facebook reportedly began to mount in spring 2017, after Facebook’s security team had spent the past year uncovering evidence about how Kremlin-backed trolls weaponized Facebook to push disinformation as well as news about the reportedly Russian-orchestrated hack of the Democratic National Convention, according to the Times. Although Stamos’ team had found evidence of Russian meddling by November 2016, it wasn’t until April 2017 that Facebook even nodded at the idea publicly. And even then, it was in a footnote in a report saying its findings were in line with the January 2017 report from the director of national intelligence that stated with “high confidence” that Russia worked to undermine Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and help secure Donald Trump’s election.  Less than a month later, in May, Time reported that Russian agents had created fake accounts on Facebook and Twitter and had bought ads on Facebook in an attempt to manipulate American social media users. Despite the fact that Stamos had reportedly found evidence of Russian meddling on Facebook back in fall 2016, Facebook told Time that it had “no evidence” of Russian agents buying ads on Facebook to target specific users with divisive content. Four months later, in September, Facebook came forward with more specifics in a blog post . The company admitted that Kremlin-linked operatives had spent $100,000 to push some 10,000 ads to Americans since mid-2015. This admission sparked congressional concern, ultimately leading to three public hearings where lawyers from Facebook, Twitter, and Google testified in front of Congress about the extent of Russian disinformation on their platforms and what they should have done to stop it. All along, according to the Times, a debate raged within the company over whether Facebook should err on the side of full disclosure or foremost protect its business.    By the end of last year, Facebook had reportedly started to whittle down Stamos’s security team and assign employees to work under two other executives at Facebook as their old boss began to prepare for his departure.  This isn’t the first time Alex Stamos has left his post as chief of security at a major Silicon Valley company after it failed to protect its users. The engineer resigned from a similar job at Yahoo in 2015 after learning that the company had complied with a secret request, either from the National Security Agency or the FBI, according to Reuters , to scan all of its customers’ incoming emails, affecting hundreds of millions of users. In May 2015, Stamos’ team found the surveillance installation, which had reportedly been approved by then-CEO Marissa Mayer, and he resigned shortly after. In June 2015, he started at Facebook. Considering Stamos once organized a conference called TrustyCon in protest of reported collaboration between the security firm RSA and the NSA to put back doors in popular encryption products, I have to imagine Stamos won’t go for a tech-giant hat trick after he leaves Facebook’s Menlo Park headquarters for good. Either way, when he leaves, he will be the first major executive to depart Facebook since it became embroiled in a controversy over how it mishandled a plague of disinformation and bad faith during the 2016 presidential election. He probably won’t be the last. 

