[w404] Facebook suspends Trump campaign data firm Cambridge Analytica 


[w407]How Cambridge Analytica turned Facebook ‘likes’ into a lucrative political tool
How Cambridge Analytica turned Facebook ‘likes’ into a lucrative political tool  and Sat 17 Mar 2018 Last modified on Sat 24 Mar 2018      Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video he algorithm at the heart of the Facebook data breach sounds almost too dystopian to be real. It trawls through the most apparently trivial, throwaway postings –the “likes” users dole out as they browse the site – to gather sensitive personal information about sexual orientation, race, gender, even intelligence and childhood trauma. A few dozen “likes” can give a strong prediction of which party a user will vote for , reveal their gender and whether their partner is likely to be a man or woman, provide powerful clues about whether their parents stayed together throughout their childhood and predict their vulnerability to substance abuse. And it can do all this without an need for delving into personal messages, posts, status updates, photos or all the other information Facebook holds. Some results may sound more like the result of updated online sleuthing than sophisticated data analysis; “liking” a political campaign page is little different from pinning a poster in a window. Revealed: 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach Read more But five years ago psychology researchers showed that far more complex traits could be deduced from patterns invisible to a human observer scanning through profiles. Just a few apparently random “likes” could form the basis for disturbingly complex character assessments. When users liked “curly fries” and Sephora cosmetics, this was said to give clues to intelligence; Hello Kitty likes indicated political views; “Being confused after waking up from naps” was linked to sexuality. These were just some of the unexpected but consistent correlations noted in a paper in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences journal in 2013. “Few users were associated with ‘likes’ explicitly revealing their attributes. For example, less than 5% of users labelled as gay were connected with explicitly gay groups, such as No H8 Campaign ,” the peer-reviewed research found. The researchers, Michal Kosinski, David Stillwell and Thore Graepel, saw the dystopian potential of the study and raised privacy concerns. At the time Facebook “likes” were public by default. “The predictability of individual attributes from digital records of behaviour may have considerable negative implications, because it can easily be applied to large numbers of people without their individual consent and without them noticing,” they said. “Commercial companies, governmental institutions, or even your Facebook friends could use software to infer attributes such as intelligence, sexual orientation or political views that an individual may not have intended to share.” To some, that may have sounded like a business opportunity. By early 2014, Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix had signed a deal with one of Kosinski’s Cambridge colleagues, lecturer Aleksandr Kogan, for a private commercial venture, separate from Kogan’s duties at the university, but echoing Kosinski’s work. How the story unfolded  In December 2016, while researching the US presidential election, Carole Cadwalladr came across data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, whose secretive manner and chequered track record belied its bland, academic-sounding name. Her initial investigations uncovered the role of US billionaire Robert Mercer in the US election campaign: his strategic “war” on mainstream media and his political campaign funding, some apparently linked to Brexit. She found the first indications that Cambridge Analytica might have used data processing methods that breached the Data Protection Act. That article prompted Britain’s Electoral Commission and the Information Commissioner’s Office to launch investigations whose remits include Cambridge Analytica’s use of data and its possible links to the EU referendum. These investigations are continuing, as is a wider ICO inquiry into the use of data in politics. While chasing the details and ramifications of complex manipulation of both data and funding law, Cadwalladr came under increasing attacks, both online and professionally, from key players. The Leave.EU campaign tweeted a doctored video that showed her being violently assaulted, and the Russian embassy wrote to the Observer to complain that her reporting was a “textbook example of bad journalism”. But the growing profile of her reports also gave whistleblowers confidence that they could trust her to not only understand their stories, but retell them clearly for a wide audience. Her network of sources and contacts grew to include not only former employees who regretted their work but academics, lawyers and others concerned about the impact on democracy of tactics employed by Cambridge Analytica and associates. Cambridge Analytica is now the subject of special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s probing of the company’s role in Donald Trump’s presidential election campaign. Investigations in the UK remain live. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. The academic had developed a Facebook app which featured a personality quiz, and Cambridge Analytica paid for people to take it, advertising on platforms such as Amazon’s Mechanical Turk. The app recorded the results of each quiz, collected data from the taker’s Facebook account – and, crucially, extracted the data of their Facebook friends as well. The results were paired with each quiz-taker’s Facebook data to seek out patterns and build an algorithm to predict results for other Facebook users. Their friends’ profiles provided a testing ground for the formula and, more crucially, a resource that would make the algorithm politically valuable.   Aleksandr Kogan To be eligible to take the test the user had to have a Facebook account and be a US voter, so tens of millions of the profiles could be matched to electoral rolls. From an initial trial of 1,000 “seeders”, the researchers obtained 160,000 profiles – or about 160 per person. Eventually a few hundred thousand paid test-takers would be the key to data from a vast swath of US voters. It was extremely attractive. It could also be deemed illicit, primarily because Kogan did not have permission to collect or use data for commercial purposes. His permission from Facebook to harvest profiles in large quantities was specifically restricted to academic use. And although the company at the time allowed apps to collect friend data, it was only for use in the context of Facebook itself, to encourage interaction. Selling that data on, or putting it to other purposes, – including Cambridge Analytica’s political marketing – was strictly barred. It also appears likely the project was breaking British data protection laws, which ban sale or use of personal data without consent. That includes cases where consent is given for one purpose but data is used for another. The paid test-takers signed up to T&Cs;, including collection of their own data, and Facebook’s default terms allowed their friends’ data to be collected by an app, unless they had changed their privacy settings. But none of them agreed to their data possibly being used to create a political marketing tool or to it being placed in a vast campaign database. Kogan maintains everything he did was legal and says he had a “close working relationship” with Facebook, which had granted him permission for his apps. Facebook denies this was a data breach. Vice-president Paul Grewal said: “Protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do, and we require the same from people who operate apps on Facebook. If these reports are true, it’s a serious abuse of our rules.” Graphic to show key players in Cambridge Analytica story The scale of the data collection Cambridge Analytica paid for was so large it triggered an automatic shutdown of the app’s ability to harvest profiles. But Kogan told a colleague he “spoke with an engineer” to get the restriction lifted and, within a day or two, work resumed. Within months, Kogan and Cambridge Analytica had a database of millions of US voters that had its own algorithm to scan them, identifying likely political persuasions and personality traits. They could then decide who to target and craft their messages that was likely to appeal to them for those individuals – a political approach known as “micro-targeting”. Facebook announced on Friday that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica and Kogan from the platform pending information over misuse of data related to this project. Facebook denies that the harvesting of tens of millions of profiles by GSR and Cambridge Analytica was a data breach. It said in a statement that Kogan “gained access to this information in a legitimate way and through the proper channels”, but “did not subsequently abide by our rules” because he passed the information onto third parties.  
[w408]  		Facebook’s Zuckerberg comes under fire from UK, US lawmakers Facebook's Zuckerberg comes under fire from UK, US lawmakers Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic criticized Facebook and its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, after reports surfaced that another company, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested information from 50 million Facebook users. A British lawmaker accused Facebook on Sunday of misleading officials by downplaying the risk of users’ data being shared without their consent. Conservative legislator Damian Collins, who heads the British Parliament’s media committee, said he would ask Zuckerberg or another Facebook executive to appear before his panel, which is investigating disinformation and “fake news.” Collins said Facebook has “consistently understated” the risk of data leaks and gave misleading answers to the committee. “Someone has to take responsibility for this,” he said. “It’s time for Mark Zuckerberg to stop hiding behind his Facebook page.” Collins also accused the head of the U.K.-based data firm Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, of lying. Nix told the committee last month that his firm had not received data from a researcher accused of obtaining millions of Facebook users’ personal information. In Washington, Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, said on Twitter that Zuckerberg “needs to testify before Senate Judiciary.” “This is a major breach that must be investigated,” Klobuchar, a member of the Judiciary Committee, said. “It’s clear these platforms can’t police themselves.” Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, echoed Klobuchar’s complaint. “This is more evidence that the online political advertising market is essentially the Wild West,” he said. “It’s clear that, left unregulated, this market will continue to be prone to deception and lacking in transparency.” Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey said on Twitter that “Massachusetts residents deserve answers” and announced that her office will investigate. The officials reacted to reports in The New York Times and The Guardian of London that Cambridge Analytica, which is best known for working on President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign, had improperly obtained Facebook user data and retained it after claiming it had deleted the information. Former Cambridge Analytica employee Chris Wylie said that the company obtained information from 50 million Facebook users, using it to build psychological profiles so voters could be targeted with ads and stories. Wylie told Britain’s Channel 4 news that the company was able to amass a huge database very quickly from an app developed by an academic that vacuumed up data from Facebook users who agreed to fill out a survey, as well as their friends and contacts — a process of which most were unaware. “Imagine I go and ask you: I say, ‘Hey, if I give you a dollar, two dollars, could you fill up this survey for me, just do it on this app’, and you say, ‘Fine,”‘ he said. “I don’t just capture what your responses are, I capture all of the information about you from Facebook. But also this app then crawls through your social network and captures all of that data also.” Wylie said that allowed the company to get roughly “50 million plus” Facebook records in several months and he criticized Facebook for facilitating the process. “Why Facebook didn’t make more inquiries when they started seeing that, you know, tens of millions of records were being pulled this way, I don’t know,” he said. Lawmaker Collins said he would summon Nix to reappear before the Parliament committee. “It seems clear that he has deliberately misled the committee and Parliament by giving false statements,” Collins said. 

[w409]  Facebook Cuts Ties with Cambridge Analytica Over Data Privacy   

[w410]    Who is Dr Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge academic accused of misusing Facebook data? Everything we know about the neuroscientist who has been banned by the social media giant for passing on millions of users’ data about 6 minutes    A photo of Kogan from the University’s website University of Cambridge & 	Saturday March 17 2018, 8:33pm 	 Updated: Wednesday April 11 2018, 6:33pm       Dr Aleksandr “Alex” Kogan, a University lecturer at the Department of Psychology, has been thrust into the limelight after he was banned from Facebook for improper use of data . A multi-organisation investigation lead by revelations from a whistleblower who assisted Kogan at the data-analysis and influence firm Cambridge Analytica has alleged that the Cambridge academic developed tools to analyse and influence the behaviour of Facebook users. The whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, has suggested that Kogan’s tools may have helped Cambridge Analytica influence the outcome of the 2016 US election. READ MORE Cambridge neuroscientist at heart of ‘data harvesting’ revelations banned from Facebook Kogan was born in Moldova, and lived in Moscow until he moved the United States at the age of seven. He studied at the University of California, Berkeley, and in Hong Kong before joining the University of Cambridge as a lecturer in psychology and psychometrics. His listed interests are behavioural analysis, cross-sectional and cohort studies, and electrophysiological recording techniques. The most recent publication on his University profile is “The role of positive self-evaluation on cross-cultural differences in well-being”, from 2015. After getting married in Singapore, Kogan was temporarily known as Aleksandr Spectre, as he is called on an outdated profile on the University’s website . German periodical Das Magazin reported that, in 2014, Kogan approached another Cambridge academic, Dr Michael Kosinski , who had been developing behavioural models based on users’ social media interests. Kogan allegedly expressed an interest in accessing information from ‘MyPersonality’, an app Kosinski had helped develop. Kosinski, who is part of the Psychometrics Centre, based at Judge Business School, grew uncomfortable with Kogan’s connection to the firm SCL, which controls Cambridge Analytica, and distanced himself from Kogan. Das Magazin claims the University feared reputational damage through its association to the organisation. Kogan is also an associate professor at the St Petersburg University – a fact his Cambridge colleagues, aside from the head of the Department of Psychology, were not told, according to The Guardian/Observer . In this position, he received funding from the Russian government to study ‘Stress, health and psychological wellbeing in social networks’. In a CV from 2014, which was previously available on the University’s website, Kogan made no mention of his connection to St Petersburg, or to having received any grants. Got a story for us? Seen something you think Varsity should be talking about? Contact our News team at news@varsity.co.uk . Kogan’s company, Global Science Research (GSR), was behind the app, ‘thisisyourdigitallife’, which harvested the data of tens of millions of Facebook users which was then passed on to Cambridge Analytica. According to Wylie, hundreds of thousands of Facebook users took personality tests with the app. In doing so, users consented to their data being collected for academic use. But the app also collected the personal information of test-takers’ Facebook friends, thus racking up data on tens of millions of users, which was accessible to Cambridge Analytica. This contravened the social network’s ‘platform policy’ which banned the collection of friends’ data for any reasons aside from improving user experience. In May 2014, Kogan set up GSR along with former University of Cambridge postdoctoral researcher, Joseph Chancellor. The pair initially registered the company’s address at Cory House, postgraduate accomodation at Magdalene College, Cambridge. Alexander Slinger, a graduate of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, was appointed as a director of GSR in August 2014, alongside Kogan and Chancellor. Chancellor resigned from GSR in September 2015, and Slinger in May 2016. The company was formally dissolved on 31 October 2017. Chancellor now works on Facebook’s User Experience Research team. In 2017, Facebook told the investigative news outlet The Intercept that Chancellor’s work at GSR “has no bearing on the work that he does at Facebook”. READ MORE Cambridge researcher revealed he had access to Facebook messages in 2015 Kogan and Slinger were also both listed as directors of Euler Group Limited, a company which existed from February to October 2016. According to Slinger’s LinkedIn, he now works for finance company Arrow Global. In early 2015, Kogan spoke at the Cambridge Science Festival , under the title: “What your Facebook says about you”. In an interview with the festival’s organisers, which has been removed from the University’s website, Kogan answered the question “What does your Facebook say about you?”. “Trick question!” he said, “It probably doesn’t say much about you personally, but it can shine a great deal of light on human nature and social processes in general. But to find out more, you’ll have to come to the talk”. 


[w411]  Trump campaign data firm accused of harvesting Facebook data - BBC News                     Trump campaign data firm accused of harvesting Facebook data 17 March 2018      The attorney general for the US state of Massachusetts is launching an investigation into alleged harvesting of Facebook profiles by a firm employed by Donald Trump's election campaign. Investigations by the Observer and New York Times newspapers claim details from 50 million profiles were gathered without the users' knowledge. The company, Cambridge Analytica, was suspended from Facebook on Friday. Both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica deny any wrongdoing. The American data analysis firm - which is not associated with the famous British university - is well known for the role it played in President Trump's election campaign, where it provided intricate data on the thoughts of American voters. Allegations against it centre on a professor from the University of Cambridge, Aleksandr Kogan, who designed a personality testing Facebook app called thisisyourdigitallife. The app was a private enterprise, and not part of his university work. The app, created in November 2013 for the Facebook platform, asked users for permission to access their profile information - and also that of their friends'. It is alleged that Mr Kogan then sold that data on to Cambridge Analytica, in violation of Facebook's policies. A whistleblower who worked at Cambridge Analytica spoke to The Guardian, claiming that he worked with Mr Kogan "to harvest millions of people's profiles." "We exploited Facebook... and built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on," he said. How did it access so many profiles? Mr Kogan's app requested permission from people taking his personality quiz to access some information from their Facebook profiles. About 265,000 people had downloaded the app at the time - and it also asked for permission to request "more limited information" from the user's friends. Facebook says this "is no longer possible" - but at the time, such a request was controlled by the privacy settings of that user's friends. So if a user had their account set to allow sharing with a friend's apps, and the friend gave permission to Mr Kogan's app, it could read some information. Facebook's policies, however, said that this data can only be used for the app's stated purpose - and cannot be transferred or sold on. Cambridge Analytica, however, said that once the company learned about how the data provided by Mr Kogan was sourced, it deleted all the relevant records , in December 2015. It said none of that data was used in the services it provided to Mr Trump's campaign. It added that it did not use or hold data from Facebook profiles​. But in a statement, Facebook wrote that it had "we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted". A spokesperson for Facebook also said that the data collection was not a hack or a breach . "People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked," the company said. Britain's Observer newspaper reports that the incident was known about more than two years ago. But the newspaper said Facebook's action to ban Cambridge Analytica and its parent group SCL this week happened four days after its reporters contacted the social network for comment about its upcoming story. On Saturday, as the story emerged in newspapers, the UK Information Commissioner, the country's main data protection regulator, said it was "investigating the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used". However, the statement did not mention Mr Kogan, his company, or Cambridge Analytica, instead saying it was part of an "ongoing investigation into the use of data analytics for political purposes". Alexander Nix, founder of Cambridge Analytica, was interviewed by a committee of British MPs last month on the firm's practices . 

[w412] Cambridge Analytica data firm 'stole' millions of Facebook profiles

[w413]    Cambridge neuroscientist banned from Facebook for illicit data harvesting Dr Aleksandr Kogan, who is based at the Department of Psychology, is at the centre of revelations about the controversial firm Cambridge Analytica, which is alleged to have influenced the US election A Cambridge neuroscience lecturer has been banned from Facebook after the company revealed he had violated the platform’s policies by releasing data as part of an political operation which may have been used to influence the US presidential election. Dr Aleksandr Kogan, a University lecturer at the Department of Psychology, has been placed at the heart of an international investigation conducted by The New York Times , The Guardian/Observer and Channel 4 , which alleges he played a prominent role in developing strategies to change voters’ behaviour while working for the controversial data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica. In a statement, released yesterday, Paul Grewal, vice-president and deputy general counsel at Facebook, said Kogan had failed to “abide by our rules” in his usage of data gathered from tens of millions of users through an app he created, ‘thisisyourdigitallife’. “In 2015, we learned that a psychology professor at the University of Cambridge named Dr. Aleksandr Kogan lied to us and violated our Platform Policies by passing data from an app that was using Facebook Login to SCL/Cambridge Analytica, a firm that does political, government and military work around the globe,” Grewal said. “When we learned of this violation in 2015, we removed his app from Facebook and demanded certifications from Kogan and all parties he had given data to that the information had been destroyed,” he continued. “Cambridge Analytica, Kogan and Wylie all certified to us that they destroyed the data.” READ MORE Who is Dr Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge academic accused of misusing Facebook data? The admission from the social media giant emerged simultaneous to revelations in the media from whistleblower Christopher Wylie, who said Kogan had produced social media algorithms which facilitated alleged efforts by data-analysis firm Cambridge Analytica to influence the outcome of the 2016 US general election, in which Donald Trump was elected. In an interview with The Guardian/Observer, Wylie described how Cambridge Analytica courted the attention of Steve Bannon, the former executive chairman of alt-right news website, Breitbart, and former chief strategist to Trump. According to Wylie, before the 2016 presidential election the company set up a “fake office” in Cambridge to which Bannon was taken while he visited the UK to give the impression that Cambridge Analytica, an independent company, had prestigious academic links to the University. Wylie also claimed that it was Bannon who suggested the company use the word “Cambridge” in its name. Cambridge Analytica has rejected all the allegations that were put to it by The Guardian/Observer . In a statement today, the University of Cambridge said: “It is important to make clear that, despite its name, Cambridge Analytica has no connection or association with the University whatsoever.” Facebook said that Kogan used an app to gather information from users of the social media platform, which he then broke the company’s rules by sharing with Cambridge Analytica. Wylie said Kogan used the data to create psychological profiles of users that allowed them to be micro-targeted by political influence campaigns. Got a story for us? Seen something you think Varsity should be talking about? Contact our News team at news@varsity.co.uk . The Guardian/Observer has also alleged that Kogan’s colleagues at the Department of Psychology were unaware that he was simultaneously holding an academic position at the University of St Petersburg , through which he received funding directly from the Russian government. The University has claimed that the head of the department at the time was aware of Kogan’s other position. Varsity has contacted Dr Kogan for comment. The University said that it had received assurances that there was not a conflict between Kogan’s academic role and his work for Cambridge Analytica. It also said it had no reason to believe Kogan used University facilities while gathering data. “We are aware that Dr Kogan established his own company, Global Science Research (GSR), of which SCL/Cambridge Analytica was a client,” its statement said. “It is not uncommon for Cambridge academics to have business interests, but they must satisfy the University that these are held in a personal capacity and that there are no conflicts of interest,” adding “It is our understanding that the thisisyourdigitallife app was created by GSR.” “Based on assurances from Dr Kogan as well as the evidence available to us, we have no reason to believe he used University data or facilities for his work with GSR, and therefore that there is no reason to believe the University’s data and facilities were used as the basis for GSR’s subsequent work with any other party.” 

[w414] Facebook's Cambridge Analytica scandal: From Trump to data mining -   Politics Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and data mining: What you need to know The world's biggest social network is at the center of an international scandal involving voter data, the 2016 US presidential election and Brexit.          Consultants working for Donald Trump's presidential campaign exploited the personal Facebook data of millions. Last month,  The New York Times and the UK's Guardian and Observer newspapers  broke news the social networking giant was duped by researchers, who reportedly gained access to the data of millions of   and then may have misused it for political ads during the 2016 US presidential election. Facebook said it was investigating the reports, which involved data consultancy Cambridge Analytica.   Over the past three-plus weeks, the situation has snowballed.  was in Washington this week to testify before Congress. Meanwhile, the number of accounts affected from initial reports of 50 million. Separately, Facebook said it was purging pages linked to a that's known for creating fake online identities and posting on both sides of politically divisive issues. Cambridge Analytica in a way that violated the social network's policies. It then reportedly tapped the information to build psychographic profiles of users and their friends, which were used for targeted political ads in the UK's Brexit referendum campaign, as well as by Trump's team during the 2016 US election.  Facebook says it told Cambridge Analytica to delete the data, but reports suggest the info wasn't destroyed. Cambridge Analytica says it complies with the social network's rules, only receives data "obtained legally and fairly," and did wipe out the data Facebook is worried about. Here's what you need to know.   Did Facebook lose control of your information?  	What is Cambridge Analytica? Cambridge Analytica is a UK-based data analytics firm, whose parent company is  Strategic Communication Laboratories . Cambridge Analytica helps political campaigns reach potential voters online. The firm combines data from multiple sources, including online information and polling, to build " profiles " of voters. It then uses computer programs to predict voter behavior, which could be influenced through specialized advertisements aimed at the voters. Cambridge Analytica isn't working with a small amount of user data. The company says it has " 5,000 data points on over 230 million American voters " -- or pretty much all of us, considering there are an estimated 250 million people of voting age in the US .  The company has since faced criticism for what executives, including CEO Alexander Nix, said . In the videos, Nix discussed he'd perform as part of his efforts to sway elections. "We have lots of history of things," Nix said in the videos, "I'm just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done." Nix has since been . His comments "do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation," the company said in a  statement . 	What did Cambridge Analytica do? Facebook said in a statement on March 16 that Cambridge Analytica received user data from Aleksandr Kogan, a lecturer at the University of Cambridge . Kogan reportedly created an app called "thisisyourdigitallife" that ostensibly offered personality predictions to users while calling itself a research tool for psychologists. The app asked users to log in using their Facebook accounts. As part of the login process, it asked for access to users' Facebook profiles, locations, what they liked on the service, and importantly, their friends' data as well. The problem, Facebook says, is that Kogan then sent this user data to Cambridge Analytica without user permission, something that's against the social network's rules. "Although Kogan gained access to this information in a legitimate way and through the proper channels that governed all developers on Facebook at that time, he did not subsequently abide by our rules," Paul Grewal, a vice president and general counsel at Facebook, said in a statement . Kogan didn't respond to requests for comment. The New York Times said he cited nondisclosure agreements and declined to provide details about what happened, saying his personality prediction program was "a very standard vanilla Facebook app." A former Cambridge Analytica executive, Brittany Kaiser, said it's possible more people's profiles have been caught up in the scandal than the 87 million Facebook has so far counted. "It is almost certain," on April 17.  	What does this have to do with Trump? The Trump campaign hired Cambridge Analytica  to run data operations  during the 2016 election. Steve Bannon, who eventually became Trump's chief strategist, was also reportedly vice president of Cambridge Analytica's board . The company helped the campaign identify voters to target with ads, and gave advice on how best to focus its approach , such as where to make campaign stops. It also helped with strategic communication, like what to say in speeches. "The applications of what we do are endless," Nix said last year in an interview with CNET sister site TechRepublic. The White House didn't respond to a request for comment. Cambridge Analytica also worked with other 2016 presidential election campaigns, according to its website and various media reports. Those included the campaigns of Sen. Ted Cruz and candidate Ben Carson, who went on to join Trump's cabinet as secretary of housing and urban development .  	Why did Facebook ban Cambridge Analytica from its service?  Facebook said Cambridge Analytica "certified" three years ago it had deleted the information, as did Kogan. But since then, Facebook said, it's received reports that not all the user data was deleted. The New York Times reported at the outset of this controversy that at least some of it remains. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it deleted all the data and is in contact with Facebook about the issue. Meanwhile, Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower who detailed how Cambridge Analytica reportedly misappropriated the Facebook data, . A few days later, he to discuss his situation and the larger controversy. "I'm actually really confused by Facebook," Wylie said. "They make me out to be this suspect or some kind of nefarious person." 	Was Facebook hacked? The New York Times characterized the original problem as a data "breach" and said it's "one of the largest data leaks in the social network's history." That's in part because the roughly 270,000 users who gave Kogan access to their information allowed him to collect data on their friends as well. In total, more than 87 million Facebook users are said to have been affected. The misuse of this data is what The New York Times zeroed in on. Can Facebook be blamed for Cambridge Analytica? Facebook's app cleanup may be harder than Mark Zuckerberg thinks Facebook denies logging users' calls, texts without permission Facebook suspends whistleblower's account after report How to delete your Facebook account once and for all Facebook, however, says that while Kogan mishandled its data, . The problem is that Kogan was supposed to hold on to the information himself, not hand it over to Cambridge Analytica or anyone else. Because the information was accessed through normal means, Facebook disputes the characterization of the incident as a breach. "People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked," the company said. Of course, critics point out that Kogan was able to do what he allegedly did because Facebook allowed app developers to request and receive access to the data of users' friends. Facebook changed that policy in 2015, prohibiting the practice . 	Wait, so Facebook allows apps to access my data? When you log in to an app using your Facebook account, the developer typically asks for access to information the social network has. Sometimes it's just your name and email address. Other times, it's your location and your friends' data too. All this is pretty much what any app developer that works with Facebook was allowed to do until 2015, when Facebook prevented app developers from accessing friends' data. Everything else, though, is still fair game. Facebook says its rules specify that developers can't share the information they receive with other firms. That's where the problem with Kogan and Cambridge Analytica comes up. The company has an app review process it puts developers through. Once they're cleared, things are A-OK. You hand your information over to app developers all the time. Don't like it? Think before you click. And read the requests from app developers more carefully . Facebook, by the way, is hoping to stop the next Cambridge Analytica. It's offered a bounty to . The company has also to help you identify which apps have access to your data, as well as those to strengthen security of your profile. Facebook also made it easier to download data it has on you. 	Could this lead to more regulation? Zuckerberg himself said it might.  "I'm actually not sure we shouldn't be regulated," he said  on March 21. "The question is, what is the right regulation?" He answered that question on April 6,  , a proposed law that would require tech companies to disclose how political ads are targeted and how much they cost. Regardless of whether that bill becomes a law, there's one thing we know for sure:  . After decades of (mostly) treating tech companies as favored children, legislators and government regulators are increasingly taking a tougher stance against them. Already, .  "This latest fiasco could reignite the debate within the Beltway and EU around a tighter regulatory environment Facebook and its social platform brethren could face going forward," Daniel Ives, an analyst at GBH Insights , wrote in a note to investors right after the controversy erupted. "This represents another critical period for Facebook to hand hold and assure its users and regulators around tighter content standards and platform security in light of this latest PR nightmare." Facebook also faces an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission over whether it . Companies that have settled previous FTC actions, the US agency said, must comply with FTC order provisions imposing privacy and data security requirements. "Accordingly, the FTC takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook," the agency said in a statement on March 26. "Today, the FTC is confirming that it has an open non-public investigation into these practices." The FTC takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook. US Federal Trade Commission The consent decree required that Facebook must get users to agree to and must notify them about the social network sharing their data. Facebook earlier told The Washington Post it rejects "any suggestion of violation of the consent decree." In Europe, where regulators have traditionally taken a tough stance on social media and privacy, the president of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, tweeted that EU lawmakers "will investigate fully, calling digital platforms to account." In the UK, Damian Collins, the chair of Parliament's committee overseeing digital matters, said  and answer questions directly. What happened in Zuckerberg's appearance before Congress? A little over three weeks after the Cambridge Analytica news broke, Zuckerberg went to Washington, where over two days he endured 10 hours of questioning by congressional committees. Echoing earlier statements, he apologized to lawmakers for Facebook's recent missteps and voiced support for some regulation of the tech industry. In his first day of testimony, he did score some points. Zuckerberg addressed a room full of  Senate Judiciary  and  Commerce Committee  members who struggled to understand what Facebook does , how the social platform works, and how to regulate it. He escaped largely unscathed, having settled into his role as both an explainer of technology and a receiver of the occasional finger-wag. But , things got a little rougher. His appearance before the House of Representatives' Energy and Commerce Committee was defined by pointed questions from lawmakers who appeared to have done their homework. Some, like New Jersey Rep. Frank Pallone, hammered Zuckerberg on default privacy settings. California Rep. Anna Eshoo asked Zuckerberg if  his own data  was swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. (He said that it was.) And Florida Rep. Kathy Castor and New Mexico Rep. Ben Lujan raised concerns about how much Facebook follows people as they browse the web -- and whether people without accounts on the social media network still get tracked via " ." Zuckerberg said that he wasn't familiar with that term and that Facebook collects data on nonusers for security purposes. "Your business is built on trust, and you're losing trust," Lujan said. But apparently Facebook hasn't lost Wall Street's confidence. The company's shares rose approximately 5 percent over the two days of testimony. Was this similar to what the Obama campaign did on Facebook? Sort of. The Obama campaign did collect a similar level of data from its app, which includes both your information and your friend's information.  But as Politifact notes, users were willingly giving up that information and knew it was going to a political campaign. The Obama campaign used your friend's data to figure out who may or may not be willing to vote for him, and sent messages to users to persuade their friends.  That's different from the Cambridge Analytica situation, since most users taking the digital life quiz had no idea that the data would be used for political purposes.  What's Facebook doing about this? After five long days, Zuckerberg on March 21 with a nearly 1,000-word post on his Facebook page. (C'mon, did you really expect it to show up on Twitter?) The post was his first since  since March 2 , when he shared a photo of his family celebrating the Jewish holiday of  Purim .  Zuckerberg acknowledged that Facebook had made mistakes with users' information. "We have a responsibility to protect your data," he wrote. "And if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you." He's since sat down for several media interviews, and on April 4, . "Life is learning from mistakes," Zuckerberg said. "At the end of the day, this is my responsibility. I started this place, I run it, I'm responsible." The company, he said, is now facing two central questions: "Can we get our systems under control and second, can we make sure that our systems aren't used to undermine democracy," Zuckerberg said. "It's not enough to give people a voice, we have to make sure that people are not using that voice to spread disinformation," he added. And, specifically, he acknowledged that Facebook has "to ensure that everyone in our ecosystem protects people's information." We have a responsibility to protect your data. And if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg He's promised to investigate apps that had access to "large amounts of information" before the company made changes to how much information third-party apps could access in 2018. Facebook will conduct a full audit of apps that exhibit suspicious behavior and bar developers who don't agree to audits. On April 6, Facebook said it was banning AggregateIQ, another political analytics firm that's reportedly tied to Cambridge Analytica's parent company, SCL. (Aggregate IQ denies this connection.) Facebook said it instituted the ban out of concern that . Facebook's public missteps have brought up other concerns about Facebook too. One example is a memo leaked to BuzzFeed penned by Andrew "Boz" Bosworth, a top Facebook executive. The 2016 memo advocates  , regardless of whether people use Facebook to bully and harass one another.  "The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good," he wrote at the time. He's since said he was trying to stir debate, and didn't agree with what he'd written. Facebook is also planning to , limiting the information it gives apps to your name, photo and email address. It'll also revoke an app's access to your data if you haven't used it for three months.  The company is also planning to further restrict political advertising, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's COO, said in an interview with Bloomberg . "If you were using hate-based language in ads for elections, we're drawing those lines much tighter and applying them uniformly," she said. Last, Facebook will begin displaying a gauge at the top of your News Feed that lets you know which apps you've used and let you revoke their permissions. All of that will provide comfort to many users, but for others ...  Facebook needs to regain the public's trust, says New...  Are people bailing from Facebook? They are, though it's still too early to know if that'll have a substantial effect on Facebook's gargantuan user numbers. Right off the bat, the hashtag -- backed by, notably, who sold the messaging service to Facebook for $19 billion. We're also starting to see some action that could hit Facebook in the wallet. Within days of the scandal erupting, Firefox maker Mozilla said it would because of data privacy concerns, and it launched a petition to ask the social network to improve its privacy settings. Meanwhile, Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has taken a different kind of stand. Prompted by an inquiry from a Twitter user, he quickly . So did Playboy, . Beyond those high profile moves, a recent survey from the anonymous employee social network Blind found that . Coverage of Facebook has turned negative too, .  Still, Zuckerberg said in a call on April 4 that the larger #DeleteFacebook .  Ultimately, reform is what's needed, said . "For many years, I never questioned it," Kaiser said. "That's the way that the political system works. That's the way that advertising works. That's the way that every single industry that exists in the entire basis of digital communications works. I do really understand the industry, and I have the ability to be a voice for change." 	What can I do? There isn't much. You may've been swept up in this without even knowing it. You don't have to have downloaded Kogan's app to have had your information accessed, since the statements and articles say the app slurped up information about users' friends. Cambridge Analytica also doesn't appear to offer a way for you to request your information be removed from its systems. The company didn't respond to a request for comment. As for Facebook, you can always try to lodge a complaint with Zuckerberg. You should also and consider these ways to . And if you're really unhappy, you could . You could also join the #DeleteFacebook campaign. Here's do it. "Cambridge Analytica used surveys and a number of other tactics to exploit the loophole in the Facebook API that allowed them to extract data from the social network," @DanPatterson said CBSN. https://t.co/218zPalXGu pic.twitter.com/WEbp2DZ2lO — CBS News (@CBSNews) 

[w415] Facebook bans Trump campaign's data analytics firm for taking user data Facebook bans Trump campaign's data analytics firm for taking user data Facebook bans Trump campaign's data analytics firm for taking user data By Elizabeth Dwoskin   Facebook is suspending the Trump-affiliated data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, after learning that it failed to delete data that it had taken inappropriately from users of the social network. Facebook said it was suspending the accounts of Strategic Communication Laboratories, the parent company of Cambridge Analytica, as well as the accounts of a University of Cambridge psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, and Christopher Wylie of Eunoia Technologies. Cambridge Analytica, a firm specialising in using online data to create voter personality profiles in order to target them with political messages, ran data operations for Donald Trump's presidential campaign. Replay The company was funded by Trump supporter and hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, and former Trump senior adviser Stephen Bannon once sat on its board. The company, which began working for the Trump campaign in June 2016, promised that its so-called "psychographic" profiles could predict the personality and political leanings of every adult in the United States. Advertisement The analytics firm was asked in December to turn over internal documents to Special Counsel Robert Mueller, as part of the investigation into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. Facebook said that Kogan had requested and gained access to information from 270,000 Facebook members after they chose to download his app. The app, "thisisyourdigitallife," offered a personality prediction, and billed itself on Facebook as "a research app used by psychologists". The Facebook members gave their consent for Kogan to access information such as the city they set on their profile, the content they had liked, as well as some limited information about friend groups and contacts. Kogan then broke Facebook's policies and passed the information to Cambridge and to Wylie. Facebook learned about Kogan's activities in 2015. The company removed Kogan's app at the time and demanded certifications from Kogan and Cambridge, and Wylie, that the information he had shared had been destroyed. Cambridge Analytica, Kogan and Wylie all certified to Facebook that they had done so. But Facebook said it received reports several days ago that the data was not deleted. "We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims," the company said. "If true, this is another unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments they made. We are suspending SCL/Cambridge Analytica, Wylie and Kogan from Facebook, pending further information." Cambridge Analytica did not respond to requests for comment. The company's methods of data collections have been criticised by other researchers. "Cambridge Analytica overstates their capabilities because they play in the shadows. They willingly cheat and ignore privacy rules and data ethics in order to win," said social media analyst Jonathan Albright, research director of the Tow Centre for Digital Journalism at Columbia University.  


[w416] 

[w417]  Facebook Suspends Trump Election Data Firm For Policy Breach Facebook Inc. suspended Cambridge Analytica, a data company that helped President Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election and which may have collected data from 50 million Facebook profiles without their owners’ permission. The social-networking company said in a blog post Friday that Cambridge Analytica received some user data through an app developer on its social network, violating its policies. In 2015, Facebook said Cambridge Analytica certified that it had destroyed the information. "Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted," Facebook said in a statement . Cambridge Analytica and parent Strategic Communication Laboratories have been suspended from the social network, "pending further information," Facebook said. Cambridge Analytica said in a Saturday statement it did nothing illegal and is ​in touch with Facebook in order to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. Originally funded by Robert Mercer, the conservative political donor and former co-chief executive officer of Renaissance Technologies, Cambridge uses data to reach voters with hyper-targeted messaging, including on Facebook and other online services. It was hired to help with voter outreach by the Trump campaign, whose former campaign manager, Steve Bannon, had been on the company’s board. ‘Culture War’ The company harvested private information from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users without permission, according to the New York Times, which cites interviews with former Cambridge employees, associates and documents. This allowed Cambridge to exploit the private social-media activity of these users in support of the Trump campaign. “They want to fight a culture war in America,” Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge and worked there until late 2014, said of the company’s leaders, according to the Times. “Cambridge Analytica was supposed to be the arsenal of weapons to fight that culture war.” Referring to stories by the Times and the Guardian, Alex Stamos, Facebook’s head of security, wrote in a Twitter message that "it is incorrect to call this a ‘breach.’" ‘Condemn’ Behavior "We can condemn this behavior while being accurate in our description of it," he wrote, calling the actions "innapropriate" in another tweet. U.S. Senator Mark Warner, vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said in an emailed statement that this is "more evidence that the online political advertising market is essentially the Wild West." The Virginia Democrat has been critical of the technology companies for letting their networks be exploited by Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign, and has called on Congress to pass the Honest Ads Act , which would regulate online election ads. "Left unregulated, this market will continue to be prone to deception and lacking transparency," he said. Cambridge in its statement said it had hired U.S. project Global Science Research in 2014 for a U.S. project, but that it subsequently became clear that the data from GSR wasn’t obtained "in line with Facebook’s terms of service." ​ "No data from GSR was used by Cambridge Analytica as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign," it said. ‘Misuse’ Data Facebook wrote that Aleksandr Kogan, a professor at the University of Cambridge, built an app that used Facebook’s login tools to obtain information about Facebook users and their friends, which the company’s policies allow. Then, in violation of policies, he subsequently shared that data with Cambridge Analytica. When Facebook found out in 2015, the parties involved told Facebook they destroyed the data. They didn’t. “Kogan did not break into any systems, bypass any technical controls, or use a flaw in our software to gather more data than allowed,” Stamos tweeted. “He did, however, misuse that data after he gathered it.” Facebook in 2015 stopped allowing app developers to gather friend data. “We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” Facebook said in the blog post. “We will take legal action if necessary to hold them responsible and accountable for any unlawful behavior.” 


[w418]  Facebook bans firms that helped Trump team exploit data of millions The firm had secured private information from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission, according to former Cambridge Analytica employees.   By: Express Web Desk | New Delhi | 		 A UK-based data analytics firm, which played a role in President Donald Trump’s 2016 election campaign and the winning Brexit campaign has been suspended by Facebook for harvesting private information of more than 50 million social networking site users without their permission. The social networking site suspended Cambridge Analytica and two other individuals after finding that its data privacy policies had been violated. In a statement, Facebook has said that it suspended Cambridge Analytica and its parent group Strategic Communication Laboratories (SCL) after receiving reports that they did not delete information about Facebook users that had been inappropriately shared. A whisteblower, who helped found the data firm, has explained how the largest data leaks in the social network’s history allowed the company to exploit the private social media activity of a huge swath of the American electorate. According to the Observer, Cambridge Analytica used the data, taken without authorization in early 2014, to build a software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. In simple words, the firm put to effect American linguist Noam Chomsky’s theory of manufacturing consent, but in an illegal way by breaching the privacy of millions of Facebook users and also violating the terms laid down by the social media giant. The firm had secured a USD 15 million investment from Hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, a prominent supporter of politically conservative groups. In fact, the wealthy Republican donor wooed his political adviser Stephen K. Bannon, with the promise of tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior. However, it did not have the data to make its new products work. To overcome this obstacle, the firm roped in University of Cambridge professor Aleksandr Kogan who built an app called thisisyourdigitallife. Kogan, in collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, prepared an online personality test in which thousands of Facebook users were paid. He also persuaded the users to have their data collected for academic use. Facebook had severed ties with the Cambridge professor in 2015, but came to know that he had not deleted all the data that was collected. However, Kogan was not immediately available for comment. Former Cambridge employees, associates and documents also reveal the way in which the massive data leak took place. One of the whistleblowers has described the company as an “arsenal of weapons” in a culture war. Meanwhile, US media is viewing the case as an international effort to read voters’ minds and raising question mark over privacy policy of Facebook.

[w420]‘I made Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare tool’: meet the data war whistleblower ‘I made Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare tool’: meet the data war whistleblower   ‘I made Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare tool’: meet the data war whistleblower   Sun 18 Mar 2018 First published on Sat 17 Mar 2018     The first time I met Christopher Wylie, he didn’t yet have pink hair. That comes later. As does his mission to rewind time. To put the genie back in the bottle. By the time I met him in person , I’d already been talking to him on a daily basis for hours at a time. On the phone, he was clever, funny, bitchy, profound, intellectually ravenous, compelling. A master storyteller. A politicker. A data science nerd. Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video Two months later, when he arrived in London from Canada, he was all those things in the flesh. And yet the flesh was impossibly young. He was 27 then (he’s 28 now), a fact that has always seemed glaringly at odds with what he has done. He may have played a pivotal role in the momentous political upheavals of 2016. At the very least, he played a consequential role. At 24, he came up with an idea that led to the foundation of a company called Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that went on to claim a major role in the Leave campaign for Britain’s EU membership referendum, and later became a key figure in digital operations during Donald Trump’s election campaign. Or, as Wylie describes it, he was the gay Canadian vegan who somehow ended up creating “ Steve Bannon ’s psychological warfare mindfuck tool”. In 2014, Steve Bannon – then executive chairman of the “alt-right” news network Breitbart – was Wylie’s boss. And Robert Mercer , the secretive US hedge-fund billionaire and Republican donor, was Cambridge Analytica’s investor. And the idea they bought into was to bring big data and social media to an established military methodology – “information operations” – then turn it on the US electorate. It was Wylie who came up with that idea and oversaw its realisation. And it was Wylie who, last spring, became my source. In May 2017, I wrote an article headlined “The great British Brexit robbery” , which set out a skein of threads that linked Brexit to Trump to Russia. Wylie was one of a handful of individuals who provided the evidence behind it. I found him, via another Cambridge Analytica ex-employee, lying low in Canada: guilty, brooding, indignant, confused. “I haven’t talked about this to anyone,” he said at the time. And then he couldn’t stop talking. Explainer embed By that time, Steve Bannon had become Trump’s chief strategist. Cambridge Analytica’s parent company, SCL, had won contracts with the US State Department and was pitching to the Pentagon, and Wylie was genuinely freaked out. “It’s insane,” he told me one night. “The company has created psychological profiles of 230 million Americans. And now they want to work with the Pentagon? It’s like Nixon on steroids.” He ended up showing me a tranche of documents that laid out the secret workings behind Cambridge Analytica. And in the months following publication of my article in May, it was revealed that the company had “reached out” to WikiLeaks to help distribute Hillary Clinton’s stolen emails in 2016. And then we watched as it became a subject of special counsel Robert Mueller ’s investigation into possible Russian collusion in the US election. The Observer also received the first of three letters from Cambridge Analytica threatening to sue Guardian News and Media for defamation. We are still only just starting to understand the maelstrom of forces that came together to create the conditions for what Mueller confirmed last month was “information warfare”. But Wylie offers a unique, worm’s-eye view of the events of 2016. Of how Facebook was hijacked, repurposed to become a theatre of war: how it became a launchpad for what seems to be an extraordinary attack on the US’s democratic process. Wylie oversaw what may have been the first critical breach. Aged 24, while studying for a PhD in fashion trend forecasting, he came up with a plan to harvest the Facebook profiles of millions of people in the US, and to use their private and personal information to create sophisticated psychological and political profiles . And then target them with political ads designed to work on their particular psychological makeup. “We ‘broke’ Facebook ,” he says. And he did it on behalf of his new boss, Steve Bannon. “Is it fair to say you ‘hacked’ Facebook?” I ask him one night. He hesitates. “I’ll point out that I assumed it was entirely legal and above board.” Last month, Facebook’s UK director of policy, Simon Milner, told British MPs on a select committee inquiry into fake news, chaired by Conservative MP Damian Collins, that Cambridge Analytica did not have Facebook data. The official Hansard extract reads: Christian Matheson (MP for Chester): “Have you ever passed any user information over to Cambridge Analytica or any of its associated companies?” Simon Milner: “No.” Matheson: “But they do hold a large chunk of Facebook’s user data, don’t they?” Milner: “No. They may have lots of data, but it will not be Facebook user data. It may be data about people who are on Facebook that they have gathered themselves, but it is not data that we have provided.”     Alexander Nix, Cambridge Analytica CEO. Photograph: The Washington Post/Getty Images Two weeks later, on 27 February, as part of the same parliamentary inquiry, Rebecca Pow, MP for Taunton Deane, asked Cambridge Analytica’s CEO, Alexander Nix : “Does any of the data come from Facebook?” Nix replied: “We do not work with Facebook data and we do not have Facebook data.” And through it all, Wylie and I, plus a handful of editors and a small, international group of academics and researchers, have known that – at least in 2014 – that certainly wasn’t the case, because Wylie has the paper trail. In our first phone call, he told me he had the receipts, invoices, emails, legal letters – records that showed how, between June and August 2014, the profiles of more than 50 million Facebook users had been harvested. Most damning of all, he had a letter from Facebook’s own lawyers admitting that Cambridge Analytica had acquired the data illegitimately. Going public involves an enormous amount of risk. Wylie is breaking a non-disclosure agreement and risks being sued. He is breaking the confidence of Steve Bannon and Robert Mercer. It’s taken a rollercoaster of a year to help get Wylie to a place where it’s possible for him to finally come forward. A year in which Cambridge Analytica has been the subject of investigations on both sides of the Atlantic – Robert Mueller’s in the US, and separate inquiries by the Electoral Commission and the Information Commissioner’s Office in the UK, both triggered in February 2017, after the Observer ’s first article in this investigation. It has been a year, too, in which Wylie has been trying his best to rewind – to undo events that he set in motion. Earlier this month, he submitted a dossier of evidence to the Information Commissioner’s Office and the National Crime Agency’s cybercrime unit. He is now in a position to go on the record: the data nerd who came in from the cold. There are many points where this story could begin. One is in 2012, when Wylie was 21 and working for the Liberal Democrats in the UK, then in government as junior coalition partners. His career trajectory has been, like most aspects of his life so far, extraordinary, preposterous, implausible. Cambridge Analytica: the key players  Alexander Nix, CEO An Old Etonian with a degree from Manchester University, Nix, 42, worked as a financial analyst in Mexico and the UK before joining SCL, a strategic communications firm, in 2003. From 2007 he took over the company’s elections division, and claims to have worked on 260 campaigns globally. He set up Cambridge Analytica to work in America, with investment from Robert Mercer.  Aleksandr Kogan, data miner Aleksandr Kogan was born in Moldova and lived in Moscow until the age of seven, then moved with his family to the US, where he became a naturalised citizen. He studied at the University of California, Berkeley, and got his PhD at the University of Hong Kong before joining Cambridge as a lecturer in psychology and expert in social media psychometrics. He set up Global Science Research (GSR) to carry out CA’s data research. While at Cambridge he accepted a position at St Petersburg State University, and also took Russian government grants for research. He changed his name to Spectre when he married, but later reverted to Kogan. Steve Bannon, former board member A former investment banker turned “alt-right” media svengali, Steve Bannon was boss at website Breitbart when he met Christopher Wylie and Nix and advised Robert Mercer to invest in political data research by setting up CA. In August 2016 he became Donald Trump’s campaign CEO. Bannon encouraged the reality TV star to embrace the “populist, economic nationalist” agenda that would carry him into the White House. That earned Bannon the post of chief strategist to the president and for a while he was arguably the second most powerful man in America. By August 2017 his relationship with Trump had soured and he was out. Robert Mercer, investor Robert Mercer, 71, is a computer scientist and hedge fund billionaire, who used his fortune to become one of the most influential men in US politics as a top Republican donor. An AI expert, he made a fortune with quantitative trading pioneers Renaissance Technologies, then built a $60m war chest to back conservative causes by using an offshore investment vehicle to avoid US tax.  Rebekah Mercer, investor Rebekah Mercer has a maths degree from Stanford, and worked as a trader, but her influence comes primarily from her father’s billions. The fortysomething, the second of Mercer’s three daughters, heads up the family foundation which channels money to rightwing groups. The conservative mega‑donors backed Breitbart, Bannon and, most influentially, poured millions into Trump’s presidential campaign. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. Wylie grew up in British Columbia and as a teenager he was diagnosed with ADHD and dyslexia. He left school at 16 without a single qualification. Yet at 17, he was working in the office of the leader of the Canadian opposition; at 18, he went to learn all things data from Obama’s national director of targeting, which he then introduced to Canada for the Liberal party . At 19, he taught himself to code, and in 2010, age 20, he came to London to study law at the London School of Economics. “Politics is like the mob, though,” he says. “You never really leave. I got a call from the Lib Dems. They wanted to upgrade their databases and voter targeting. So, I combined working for them with studying for my degree.” Politics is also where he feels most comfortable. He hated school, but as an intern in the Canadian parliament he discovered a world where he could talk to adults and they would listen. He was the kid who did the internet stuff and within a year he was working for the leader of the opposition. It showed these odd patterns. People who liked 'I hate Israel' on Facebook also tended to like KitKats “He’s one of the brightest people you will ever meet,” a senior politician who’s known Wylie since he was 20 told me. “Sometimes that’s a blessing and sometimes a curse.” Meanwhile, at Cambridge University’s Psychometrics Centre , two psychologists, Michal Kosinski and David Stillwell, were experimenting with a way of studying personality – by quantifying it. Starting in 2007, Stillwell, while a student, had devised various apps for Facebook, one of which, a personality quiz called myPersonality , had gone viral. Users were scored on “big five” personality traits – Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness and Neuroticism – and in exchange, 40% of them consented to give him access to their Facebook profiles. Suddenly, there was a way of measuring personality traits across the population and correlating scores against Facebook “likes” across millions of people.      Examples, above and below, of the visual messages trialled by GSR’s online profiling test. Respondents were asked: How important should this message be to all Americans? The research was original, groundbreaking and had obvious possibilities. “They had a lot of approaches from the security services,” a member of the centre told me. “There was one called You Are What You Like and it was demonstrated to the intelligence services. And it showed these odd patterns; that, for example, people who liked ‘I hate Israel’ on Facebook also tended to like Nike shoes and KitKats. “There are agencies that fund research on behalf of the intelligence services. And they were all over this research. That one was nicknamed Operation KitKat.” The defence and military establishment were the first to see the potential of the research. Boeing, a major US defence contractor, funded Kosinski’s PhD and Darpa , the US government’s secretive Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, is cited in at least two academic papers supporting Kosinski’s work. But when, in 2013, the first major paper was published, others saw this potential too, including Wylie. He had finished his degree and had started his PhD in fashion forecasting, and was thinking about the Lib Dems. It is fair to say that he didn’t have a clue what he was walking into.    “I wanted to know why the Lib Dems sucked at winning elections when they used to run the country up to the end of the 19th century,” Wylie explains. “And I began looking at consumer and demographic data to see what united Lib Dem voters, because apart from bits of Wales and the Shetlands it’s weird, disparate regions. And what I found is there were no strong correlations. There was no signal in the data. “And then I came across a paper about how personality traits could be a precursor to political behaviour, and it suddenly made sense. Liberalism is correlated with high openness and low conscientiousness, and when you think of Lib Dems they’re absent-minded professors and hippies. They’re the early adopters… they’re highly open to new ideas. And it just clicked all of a sudden.” Here was a way for the party to identify potential new voters. The only problem was that the Lib Dems weren’t interested. “I did this presentation at which I told them they would lose half their 57 seats, and they were like: ‘Why are you so pessimistic?’ They actually lost all but eight of their seats, FYI.” Another Lib Dem connection introduced Wylie to a company called SCL Group , one of whose subsidiaries, SCL Elections, would go on to create Cambridge Analytica (an incorporated venture between SCL Elections and Robert Mercer, funded by the latter). For all intents and purposes, SCL/Cambridge Analytica are one and the same. Alexander Nix, then CEO of SCL Elections, made Wylie an offer he couldn’t resist. “He said: ‘We’ll give you total freedom. Experiment. Come and test out all your crazy ideas.’”    Another example of the visual messages trialled by GSR’s online profiling test. In the history of bad ideas, this turned out to be one of the worst. The job was research director across the SCL group, a private contractor that has both defence and elections operations. Its defence arm was a contractor to the UK’s Ministry of Defence and the US’s Department of Defense, among others. Its expertise was in “psychological operations” – or psyops – changing people’s minds not through persuasion but through “informational dominance”, a set of techniques that includes rumour, disinformation and fake news. SCL Elections had used a similar suite of tools in more than 200 elections around the world, mostly in undeveloped democracies that Wylie would come to realise were unequipped to defend themselves. Wylie holds a British Tier 1 Exceptional Talent visa – a UK work visa given to just 200 people a year. He was working inside government (with the Lib Dems) as a political strategist with advanced data science skills. But no one, least of all him, could have predicted what came next. When he turned up at SCL’s offices in Mayfair, he had no clue that he was walking into the middle of a nexus of defence and intelligence projects, private contractors and cutting-edge cyberweaponry. “The thing I think about all the time is, what if I’d taken a job at Deloitte instead? They offered me one. I just think if I’d taken literally any other job, Cambridge Analytica wouldn’t exist. You have no idea how much I brood on this.” A few months later, in autumn 2013, Wylie met Steve Bannon. At the time, he was editor-in-chief of Breitbart, which he had brought to Britain to support his friend Nigel Farage in his mission to take Britain out of the European Union . What was he like? “Smart,” says Wylie. “Interesting. Really interested in ideas. He’s the only straight man I’ve ever talked to about intersectional feminist theory . He saw its relevance straightaway to the oppressions that conservative, young white men feel.” Wylie meeting Bannon was the moment petrol was poured on a flickering flame. Wylie lives for ideas. He speaks 19 to the dozen for hours at a time. He had a theory to prove. And at the time, this was a purely intellectual problem. Politics was like fashion, he told Bannon. If you do not respect the agency of people, anything you do after that point is not conducive to democracy Christopher Wylie “[Bannon] got it immediately. He believes in the whole Andrew Breitbart doctrine that politics is downstream from culture, so to change politics you need to change culture. And fashion trends are a useful proxy for that. Trump is like a pair of Uggs, or Crocs, basically. So how do you get from people thinking ‘Ugh. Totally ugly’ to the moment when everyone is wearing them? That was the inflection point he was looking for.” But Wylie wasn’t just talking about fashion. He had recently been exposed to a new discipline: “information operations”, which ranks alongside land, sea, air and space in the US military’s doctrine of the “five-dimensional battle space”. His brief ranged across the SCL Group – the British government has paid SCL to conduct counter-extremism operations in the Middle East, and the US Department of Defense has contracted it to work in Afghanistan. I tell him that another former employee described the firm as “MI6 for hire”, and I’d never quite understood it. “It’s like dirty MI6 because you’re not constrained. There’s no having to go to a judge to apply for permission. It’s normal for a ‘market research company’ to amass data on domestic populations. And if you’re working in some country and there’s an auxiliary benefit to a current client with aligned interests, well that’s just a bonus.” When I ask how Bannon even found SCL, Wylie tells me what sounds like a tall tale, though it’s one he can back up with an email about how Mark Block , a veteran Republican strategist, happened to sit next to a cyberwarfare expert for the US air force on a plane. “And the cyberwarfare guy is like, ‘Oh, you should meet SCL. They do cyberwarfare for elections.’”     Steve Bannon: ‘He loved the gays,’ says Wylie. ‘He saw us as early adopters.’ Photograph: Tony Gentile/Reuters It was Bannon who took this idea to the Mercers: Robert Mercer – the co-CEO of the hedge fund Renaissance Technologies , who used his billions to pursue a rightwing agenda, donating to Republican causes and supporting Republican candidates – and his daughter Rebekah . Nix and Wylie flew to New York to meet the Mercers in Rebekah’s Manhattan apartment. “She loved me. She was like, ‘Oh we need more of your type on our side!’” Your type? “The gays. She loved the gays. So did Steve [Bannon]. He saw us as early adopters. He figured, if you can get the gays on board, everyone else will follow. It’s why he was so into the whole Milo [Yiannopoulos] thing.” Robert Mercer was a pioneer in AI and machine translation. He helped invent algorithmic trading – which replaced hedge fund managers with computer programs – and he listened to Wylie’s pitch. It was for a new kind of political message-targeting based on an influential and groundbreaking 2014 paper researched at Cambridge’s Psychometrics Centre , called: “Computer-based personality judgments are more accurate than those made by humans”. “In politics, the money man is usually the dumbest person in the room. Whereas it’s the opposite way around with Mercer,” says Wylie. “He said very little, but he really listened. He wanted to understand the science. And he wanted proof that it worked.” And to do that, Wylie needed data. How Cambridge Analytica acquired the data has been the subject of internal reviews at Cambridge University, of many news articles and much speculation and rumour. When Nix was interviewed by MPs last month, Damian Collins asked him: “Does any of your data come from Global Science Research company?” Nix: “GSR?” Collins: “Yes.” Nix: “We had a relationship with GSR. They did some research for us back in 2014. That research proved to be fruitless and so the answer is no.” Collins: “They have not supplied you with data or information?” Nix: “No.” Collins: “Your datasets are not based on information you have received from them?” Nix: “No.” Collins: “At all?” Nix: “At all.” The problem with Nix’s response to Collins is that Wylie has a copy of an executed contract, dated 4 June 2014, which confirms that SCL, the parent company of Cambridge Analytica, entered into a commercial arrangement with a company called Global Science Research (GSR), owned by Cambridge-based academic Aleksandr Kogan, specifically premised on the harvesting and processing of Facebook data, so that it could be matched to personality traits and voter rolls. He has receipts showing that Cambridge Analytica spent $7m to amass this data, about $1m of it with GSR. He has the bank records and wire transfers. Emails reveal Wylie first negotiated with Michal Kosinski, one of the co-authors of the original myPersonality research paper, to use the myPersonality database. But when negotiations broke down, another psychologist, Aleksandr Kogan, offered a solution that many of his colleagues considered unethical. He offered to replicate Kosinski and Stillwell’s research and cut them out of the deal. For Wylie it seemed a perfect solution. “Kosinski was asking for $500,000 for the IP but Kogan said he could replicate it and just harvest his own set of data.” (Kosinski says the fee was to fund further research.)   An unethical solution? Dr Aleksandr Kogan Photograph: alex kogan Kogan then set up GSR to do the work, and proposed to Wylie they use the data to set up an interdisciplinary institute working across the social sciences. “What happened to that idea,” I ask Wylie. “It never happened. I don’t know why. That’s one of the things that upsets me the most.” It was Bannon’s interest in culture as war that ignited Wylie’s intellectual concept. But it was Robert Mercer’s millions that created a firestorm. Kogan was able to throw money at the hard problem of acquiring personal data: he advertised for people who were willing to be paid to take a personality quiz on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk and Qualtrics . At the end of which Kogan’s app, called thisismydigitallife, gave him permission to access their Facebook profiles. And not just theirs, but their friends’ too. On average, each “seeder” – the people who had taken the personality test, around 320,000 in total – unwittingly gave access to at least 160 other people’s profiles, none of whom would have known or had reason to suspect. What the email correspondence between Cambridge Analytica employees and Kogan shows is that Kogan had collected millions of profiles in a matter of weeks. But neither Wylie nor anyone else at Cambridge Analytica had checked that it was legal. It certainly wasn’t authorised. Kogan did have permission to pull Facebook data, but for academic purposes only. What’s more, under British data protection laws, it’s illegal for personal data to be sold to a third party without consent. “Facebook could see it was happening,” says Wylie. “Their security protocols were triggered because Kogan’s apps were pulling this enormous amount of data, but apparently Kogan told them it was for academic use. So they were like, ‘Fine’.” Kogan maintains that everything he did was legal and he had a “close working relationship” with Facebook, which had granted him permission for his apps. Cambridge Analytica had its data. This was the foundation of everything it did next – how it extracted psychological insights from the “seeders” and then built an algorithm to profile millions more. For more than a year, the reporting around what Cambridge Analytica did or didn’t do for Trump has revolved around the question of “psychographics”, but Wylie points out: “Everything was built on the back of that data. The models, the algorithm. Everything. Why wouldn’t you use it in your biggest campaign ever?” In December 2015, the Guardian ’s Harry Davies published the first report about Cambridge Analytica acquiring Facebook data and using it to support Ted Cruz in his campaign to be the US Republican candidate. But it wasn’t until many months later that Facebook took action. And then, all they did was write a letter. In August 2016, shortly before the US election, and two years after the breach took place, Facebook’s lawyers wrote to Wylie, who left Cambridge Analytica in 2014, and told him the data had been illicitly obtained and that “GSR was not authorised to share or sell it”. They said it must be deleted immediately.      Christopher Wylie: ‘It’s like Nixon on steroids’ “I already had. But literally all I had to do was tick a box and sign it and send it back, and that was it,” says Wylie. “Facebook made zero effort to get the data back.” There were multiple copies of it. It had been emailed in unencrypted files. Cambridge Analytica rejected all allegations the Observer put to them. Dr Kogan – who later changed his name to Dr Spectre, but has subsequently changed it back to Dr Kogan – is still a faculty member at Cambridge University, a senior research associate. But what his fellow academics didn’t know until Kogan revealed it in emails to the Observer (although Cambridge University says that Kogan told the head of the psychology department), is that he is also an associate professor at St Petersburg University. Further research revealed that he’s received grants from the Russian government to research “Stress, health and psychological wellbeing in social networks”. The opportunity came about on a trip to the city to visit friends and family, he said. There are other dramatic documents in Wylie’s stash, including a pitch made by Cambridge Analytica to Lukoil , Russia’s second biggest oil producer . In an email dated 17 July 2014, about the US presidential primaries, Nix wrote to Wylie: “We have been asked to write a memo to Lukoil (the Russian oil and gas company) to explain to them how our services are going to apply to the petroleum business. Nix said that “they understand behavioural microtargeting in the context of elections” but that they were “failing to make the connection between voters and their consumers”. The work, he said, would be “shared with the CEO of the business”, a former Soviet oil minister and associate of Putin, Vagit Alekperov . “It didn’t make any sense to me,” says Wylie. “I didn’t understand either the email or the pitch presentation we did. Why would a Russian oil company want to target information on American voters?” Mueller’s investigation traces the first stages of the Russian operation to disrupt the 2016 US election back to 2014, when the Russian state made what appears to be its first concerted efforts to harness the power of America’s social media platforms, including Facebook. And it was in late summer of the same year that Cambridge Analytica presented the Russian oil company with an outline of its datasets, capabilities and methodology. The presentation had little to do with “consumers”. Instead, documents show it focused on election disruption techniques. The first slide illustrates how a “rumour campaign” spread fear in the 2007 Nigerian election – in which the company worked – by spreading the idea that the “election would be rigged”. The final slide, branded with Lukoil’s logo and that of SCL Group and SCL Elections, headlines its “deliverables”: “psychographic messaging”.     Robert Mercer with his daughter Rebekah. Photograph: Sean Zanni/Getty Images Lukoil is a private company, but its CEO, Alekperov, answers to Putin, and it’s been used as a vehicle of Russian influence in Europe and elsewhere – including in the Czech Republic, where in 2016 it was revealed that an adviser to the strongly pro-Russian Czech president was being paid by the company. When I asked Bill Browder – an Anglo-American businessman who is leading a global campaign for a Magnitsky Act to enforce sanctions against Russian individuals – what he made of it, he said: “Everyone in Russia is subordinate to Putin. One should be highly suspicious of any Russian company pitching anything outside its normal business activities.” Last month, Nix told MPs on the parliamentary committee investigating fake news: “We have never worked with a Russian organisation in Russia or any other company. We do not have any relationship with Russia or Russian individuals.” There’s no evidence that Cambridge Analytica ever did any work for Lukoil. What these documents show, though, is that in 2014 one of Russia’s biggest companies was fully briefed on: Facebook, microtargeting, data, election disruption. Cambridge Analytica is “Chris’s Frankenstein”, says a friend of his. “He created it. It’s his data Frankenmonster. And now he’s trying to put it right.” Only once has Wylie made the case of pointing out that he was 24 at the time. But he was. He thrilled to the intellectual possibilities of it. He didn’t think of the consequences. And I wonder how much he’s processed his own role or responsibility in it. Instead, he’s determined to go on the record and undo this thing he has created. Because the past few months have been like watching a tornado gathering force. And when Wylie turns the full force of his attention to something – his strategic brain, his attention to detail, his ability to plan 12 moves ahead – it is sometimes slightly terrifying to behold. Dealing with someone trained in information warfare has its own particular challenges, and his suite of extraordinary talents include the kind of high-level political skills that makes House of Cards look like The Great British Bake Off . And not everyone’s a fan. Any number of ex-colleagues – even the ones who love him – call him “Machiavellian”. Another described the screaming matches he and Nix would have. “What do your parents make of your decision to come forward?” I ask him. “They get it. My dad sent me a cartoon today, which had two characters hanging off a cliff, and the first one’s saying ‘Hang in there.’ And the other is like: ‘Fuck you.’” Which are you? “Probably both.” What isn’t in doubt is what a long, fraught journey it has been to get to this stage. And how fearless he is. After many months, I learn the terrible, dark backstory that throws some light on his determination, and which he discusses candidly. At six, while at school, Wylie was abused by a mentally unstable person. The school tried to cover it up, blaming his parents, and a long court battle followed. Wylie’s childhood and school career never recovered. His parents – his father is a doctor and his mother is a psychiatrist – were wonderful, he says. “But they knew the trajectory of people who are put in that situation, so I think it was particularly difficult for them, because they had a deeper understanding of what that does to a person long term.” Facebook has denied and denied this. It has failed in its duties to respect the law Paul-Olivier Dehaye He says he grew up listening to psychologists discuss him in the third person, and, aged 14, he successfully sued the British Columbia Ministry of Education and forced it to change its inclusion policies around bullying. What I observe now is how much he loves the law, lawyers, precision, order. I come to think of his pink hair as a false-flag operation. What he cannot tolerate is bullying. Is what Cambridge Analytica does akin to bullying? “I think it’s worse than bullying,” Wylie says. “Because people don’t necessarily know it’s being done to them. At least bullying respects the agency of people because they know. So it’s worse, because if you do not respect the agency of people, anything that you’re doing after that point is not conducive to a democracy. And fundamentally, information warfare is not conducive to democracy.” Russia, Facebook, Trump, Mercer, Bannon, Brexit. Every one of these threads runs through Cambridge Analytica. Even in the past few weeks, it seems as if the understanding of Facebook’s role has broadened and deepened. The Mueller indictments were part of that, but Paul-Olivier Dehaye – a data expert and academic based in Switzerland, who published some of the first research into Cambridge Analytica’s processes – says it’s become increasingly apparent that Facebook is “abusive by design”. If there is evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia, it will be in the platform’s data flows, he says. And Wylie’s revelations only move it on again. “Facebook has denied and denied and denied this,” Dehaye says when told of the Observer ’s new evidence. “It has misled MPs and congressional investigators and it’s failed in its duties to respect the law. It has a legal obligation to inform regulators and individuals about this data breach, and it hasn’t. It’s failed time and time again to be open and transparent.” The great British Brexit robbery: how our democracy was hijacked Read more Facebook denies that the data transfer was a breach. In addition, a spokesperson said: “Protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do, and we require the same from people who operate apps on Facebook. If these reports are true, it’s a serious abuse of our rules. Both Aleksandr Kogan as well as the SCL Group and Cambridge Analytica certified to us that they destroyed the data in question.” Millions of people’s personal information was stolen and used to target them in ways they wouldn’t have seen, and couldn’t have known about, by a mercenary outfit, Cambridge Analytica, who, Wylie says, “would work for anyone”. Who would pitch to Russian oil companies. Would they subvert elections abroad on behalf of foreign governments? It occurs to me to ask Wylie this one night. “Yes.” Nato or non-Nato? “Either. I mean they’re mercenaries. They’ll work for pretty much anyone who pays.” It’s an incredible revelation. It also encapsulates all of the problems of outsourcing – at a global scale, with added cyberweapons. And in the middle of it all are the public – our intimate family connections, our “likes”, our crumbs of personal data, all sucked into a swirling black hole that’s expanding and growing and is now owned by a politically motivated billionaire. The Facebook data is out in the wild. And for all Wylie’s efforts, there’s no turning the clock back. Tamsin Shaw , a philosophy professor at New York University, and the author of a recent New York Review of Books article on cyberwar and the Silicon Valley economy, told me that she’d pointed to the possibility of private contractors obtaining cyberweapons that had at least been in part funded by US defence. She calls Wylie’s disclosures “wild” and points out that “the whole Facebook project” has only been allowed to become as vast and powerful as it has because of the US national security establishment. “It’s a form of very deep but soft power that’s been seen as an asset for the US. Russia has been so explicit about this, paying for the ads in roubles and so on. It’s making this point, isn’t it? That Silicon Valley is a US national security asset that they’ve turned on itself.” Or, more simply: blowback. Revealed: 50m Facebook profiles harvested in major data breach How ‘likes’ became a political weapon                Wylie appeared before the Senate judiciary committee, expressing concern about true informed consent when it comes to social platforms  Cambridge Analytica whistleblower appears before Senate – as it happened     Facebook CEO exploited ability to access data from any user’s friend network, US case claims  Zuckerberg set up fraudulent scheme to 'weaponise' data, court case alleges     Company gathered data from texts and photos of users and their friends, court case claims  Facebook accused of conducting mass surveillance through its apps     Dominic Cummings says move would prove campaign did not use data gathered improperly by Cambridge Analytica  Publish all Vote Leave's data, campaign chief challenges Facebook    The six weeks that brought Cambridge Analytica down   What does Cambridge Analytica closing mean for the Facebook data scandal?   Cambridge Analytica closing after Facebook data harvesting scandal   How to check whether Facebook shared your data with Cambridge Analytica      


[w421] Cambridge Analytica harvested Facebook data of 50 million users - Business InsiderTrump-linked firm Cambridge Analytica collected personal information from 50 million Facebook users without permission     Mar. 17, 2018, 4:01 PM     Data firm Cambridge Analytica accessed data from 50 million Facebook users during the 2016 US presidential campaign without the users' permission. Facebook suspended the firm from its platform on Friday, saying Cambridge Analytica lied about deleting the unauthorized information when it was first caught in 2015. President Donald Trump's campaign hired Cambridge to target voters and direct its political advertising strategy. A data analysis firm linked to President Donald Trump's campaign used the personal information of 50 million people on Facebook without authorization to target them with personalized political advertisements, The Guardian reported Saturday. The report comes just one day after Facebook suspended the firm, Cambridge Analytica, from buying ads or managing pages on the social media platform after discovering rules violations. "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons," Christopher Wylie, a former employee at Cambridge Analytica who helped the company obtain user data, told The Guardian. "That was the basis that the entire company was built on." In 2014, Wylie reached out to Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American who was then a professor of psychology at the University of Cambridge in the UK. Kogan had developed a personality prediction app called "thisisyourdigitallife" that compiled personal information from people based on what they liked on Facebook. Advertisement Through his company, Global Science Research, Kogan and Cambridge Analytica paid roughly 270,000 people to download the app and take a personality test, per the Guardian report. The demo helped Cambridge Analytica compile information not only from the users who took part in Kogan's research, but from their friends' profiles as well, exposing millions of users' data. Each person who downloaded the app only needed to have about 185 friends on Facebook for Cambridge to access the 50 million users. Kogan's app compiled psychographic profiles of users that analyzed a variety of characteristics and personality traits, including openness, conscientiousness, agreeableness, IQ, gender, age, political views, and religion. It also evaluated people's "sensational interests," which were divided into five categories: "militarism" — guns and shooting, martial arts, crossbows, and knives "violent occultism" — drugs, black magic, paganism "intellectual activities" — singing and making music, foreign travel, the environment "credulousness" — the paranormal, flying saucers "wholesome interests" — camping, gardening, hill-walking At the time, Kogan told Facebook he was collecting the information solely for academic purposes, but he did not reveal that his research would be handed over to Cambridge to use in political campaigns. In a statement on Friday, Facebook said Kogan "lied to us and violated our Platform Policies by passing data from an app that was using Facebook Login to SCL/Cambridge Analytica, a firm that does political, government and military work around the globe." 'This was a scam' Facebook reportedly first learned of Kogan's misuse of its data two years ago, but didn't disclose that fact to the public. At the time, the company removed Kogan's app from its platform and demanded that Kogan and Cambridge delete all of the data they had collected. All parties appeared to comply. In fact, as recently as last month, Cambridge CEO Alexander Nix denied using data from Facebook and testified before a UK parliamentary committee that his firm did not have any of the data collected from Kogan's research. But after reviewing the firm's internal emails and documents and interviewing former Cambridge employees, The New York Times found that most of the Facebook data was still in the firm's possession. "This was a scam — and a fraud," Facebook vice president and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal told The Times. "We will take whatever steps are required to see that the data in question is deleted once and for all — and take action against all offending parties." Facebook's statement about deleting Cambridge from its platform came late Friday night — hours before The Times broke its story on Saturday morning. During the 2016 US presidential race, Cambridge performed a variety of tasks for the Trump campaign, including profiling voters, purchasing TV ads, and suggesting where Trump should travel to best appeal to voters, according to The Times. Several news outlets reported in 2016 that the Trump campaign paid Cambridge Analytica $5 million for its services in September alone that year, a significant increase from the $250,000 it paid one month earlier. But the extent to which the Trump campaign relied on the firm's work and whether its services helped Trump win aren't exactly clear.            Advertisement Cambridge Analytica was founded in 2013. Shortly thereafter, prominent Trump supporter and American businessman Robert Mercer invested $15 million in the firm. Steve Bannon, Trump's former chief strategist, served as board member. In addition to its involvement with the Trump team, Cambridge has also been involved with dozens of other political campaigns in the US and the UK, including the Brexit referendum and Sen. Ted Cruz's primary run in 2016. Facebook suspends Cambridge Analytica, a controversial data-analysis firm linked to the Trump campaign  Cambridge Analytica Facebook Donald Trump 2016 US Election Robert Mercer Steve Bannon Alexander Nix Russia investigation Russia Newsletter

[w422]Cambridge Analytica: links to Moscow oil firm and St Petersburg universitySt Petersburg State University, where Aleksandr Kogan taught and received research grants. Photograph: Alamy leksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University academic who orchestrated the harvesting of Facebook data, had previously unreported ties to a Russian university, including a teaching position and grants for research into the social media network, the Observer has discovered. Cambridge Analytica, the data firm he worked with – which funded the project to turn tens of millions of Facebook profiles into a unique political weapon – also attracted interest from a key Russian firm with links to the Kremlin. Energy firm Lukoil, which is now on the US sanctions list and has been used as a vehicle of government influence, saw a presentation on the firm’s work in 2014. It began with a focus on voter suppression in Nigeria, and Cambridge Analytica also discussed “micro-targeting” individuals on social media during elections. The revelations come at a time of intense US scrutiny of Russian meddling in the 2016 US presidential election, with 13 Russians criminally charged last month with interfering to help Donald Trump. In Britain, concerns about Russian propaganda have been mounting, with the prime minister, Theresa May, recently attacking Russia for spreading fake news, accusing Moscow of attempts to “ weaponise information ” and influence polls. Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil company, discussed with Cambridge Analytica the data company’s powerful social media marketing system, which was already being deployed for Republican Ted Cruz in the US presidential primaries and was later used to back Brexit and Trump. Alexander Nix, chief executive of Cambridge Analytica , emailed colleagues after initial contacts to say that Lukoil wanted a clearer explanation of “how our services are going to apply to the petroleum business”. “They understand behavioural micro-targeting in the context of elections (as per your excellent document/white paper) but they are failing to make the connection between voters and their consumers,” he wrote in an email seen by the Observer . A slide presentation prepared for the Lukoil pitch focuses first on election disruption strategies used by Cambridge Analytica’s parent company, SCL, in Nigeria. They are presented under the heading “Election: Inoculation”, a military term used in “psychological operations” and disinformation campaigns. Other SCL documents show that the material shared with Lukoil included posters and videos apparently aimed at alarming or demoralising voters, including warnings of violence and fraud. Discussion of services offered by Cambridge Analytica was apparently going right to the top of Lukoil, even though its retail operations in America are a very minor corner of the oil and gas giant’s empire. Asking for a detailed presentation of Cambridge Analyticas’s work in July 2014, Nix told his colleague the document would be “shared with the CEO of the business”. The chief executive of Lukoil, Vagit Alekperov, is a former Soviet oil minister who has said the strategic aims of Lukoil are closely aligned with those of Russia . “I have only one task connected with politics, to help the country and the company. I’m not close to Mr Putin, but I treat him with great respect,” he told the New York Times . Cambridge Analytica said an affiliate company had talked to Lukoil Turkey about a loyalty card scheme and proposed a pilot study with a small number of petrol stations there, but the project had not gone ahead. “[The talks] were about potential commercial work in Turkey and did not involve any discussion of political work,” a spokesman said. “Cambridge Analytica and its affiliate companies have not worked in Russia and have not worked for a Russian company or organisation.” Last month Nix told MPs: “We have never worked with a Russian organisation in Russia or any other company. We do no have any relationship with Russia or Russian individuals.” That appears to contradict the company documents seen by the Observer, that list Russia as one of the countries where Cambridge Analytica and affiliate companies have clients. Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower who has come forward to talk to the Observer , said it was never entirely clear what the Russian firm hoped to get from the operation. “Alexander Nix’s presentation didn’t make any sense to me,” said Wylie, who left Cambridge Analytica soon after the initial meetings. “If this was a commercial deal, why were they so interested in our political targeting?” Lukoil did not respond to requests for comments. Kogan, a lecturer who worked with Cambridge Analytica on building up the database of US voters then at the heart of the company’s plans, said he had not had any connection to the Lukoil pitch. Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video But while he was helping turn Facebook profiles into a political tool he was also an associate professor at St Petersburg State University, taking Russian government grants to fund other research into social media. “Stress, health, and psychological wellbeing in social networks: cross-cultural investigation” was the title of one piece of research. Online posts showed Kogan lecturing in Russian. One talk was called: “New methods of communication as an effective political instrument”. Cambridge University said academics are allowed to take on outside work but are expected to inform their head of institution, a rule Kogan had complied with. “We understand that Dr Kogan informed his head of department of discussions with St Petersburg University regarding a collaboration; it was understood that this work and any associated grants would be in a private capacity,” a spokesman said. Apart from that, Kogan appears to have largely kept the work private. Colleagues said they had not heard about the post in St Petersburg. “I am very surprised by that. No one knew,” one academic who asked not to be named told the Observer . Russia is not mentioned in a 10-page CV Kogan posted on a university website in 2015. The CV lists undergraduate prizes and grants of a few thousand dollars and links to dozens of media interviews. One Cambridge Analytica employee mentioned Kogan’s Russian work in an email to Nix in March 2014 discussing a pitch to a Caribbean nation for a security contract, including “criminal psychographic profiling via intercepts”. “We may want to either loop in or find out a bit more about the interesting work Alex Kogan has been doing for the Russians and see how/if it applies,” the colleague wrote. Kogan told the Observer : “Nothing I did on the Russian project was at all related to Cambridge Analytica in any way. No data or models.” His recollection was that the Russia project had started a year after his collaboration with Cambridge Analytica ended. He said the St Petersburg position emerged by chance on a social visit. A native Russian speaker, Kogan was born in Moldova and brought up in Moscow until he was seven, when his family emigrated to the US, where he later obtained citizenship. However, he stayed in touch with family friends in Russia and visited regularly. On one trip, he said, he “dropped an email” to the psychology department at St Petersburg. “We met, had a nice chat, and decided let’s try to collaborate – give me more reason to visit there,” he told the Observer in an email.


[w423]  Mark Zuckerberg Finally Addresses Cambridge Analytica Controversy


[w424] Data Firm Tied to Trump Campaign Talked Business With Russians - The New York Times   When the Russia question came up during a hearing at the British Parliament last month, Alexander Nix did not hesitate. “We’ve never worked in Russia,” said Mr. Nix, head of a data consulting firm that advised the Trump campaign on targeting voters. “As far as I’m aware, we’ve never worked for a Russian company,” Mr. Nix added. “We’ve never worked with a Russian organization in Russia or any other country, and we don’t have any relationship with Russia or Russian individuals.” But Mr. Nix’s business did have some dealings with Russian interests, according to company documents and interviews. Mr. Nix is a director of SCL Group, a British political and defense contractor, and chief executive of its American offshoot, Cambridge Analytica , which advised the Trump campaign. The firms’ employees, who often overlap, had contact in 2014 and 2015 with executives from Lukoil, the Russian oil giant. Lukoil was interested in how data was used to target American voters, according to two former company insiders who said there were at least three meetings with Lukoil executives in London and Turkey. SCL and Lukoil denied that the talks were political in nature, and SCL also said there were no meetings in London. The contacts took place as Cambridge Analytica was building a roster of Republican clients in the United States — and harvesting the Facebook profiles of over 50 million users to develop tools to analyze voters’ behavior. Cambridge Analytica also included extensive questions about Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, in surveys it was carrying out in American focus groups in 2014. It is not clear what — or which client — prompted the line of questioning, which asked for views on topics ranging from Mr. Putin’s popularity to Russian expansionism. On two promotional documents obtained by The New York Times, SCL said it did business in Russia. In both documents, the country is highlighted on world maps that specify the location of SCL clients, with one of the maps noting that the clients were for the firm’s elections division. In a statement, SCL said an employee had done “commercial work” about 25 years ago “for a private company in Russia.” Cambridge Analytica has been a political flash point since its role in the Trump campaign attracted scrutiny after the election. While Mr. Nix’s firm turned over some records to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence during its investigation of Russian interference, Democrats on the committee want a fuller review. “It is imperative to interview a broader range of individuals employed by or linked to Cambridge Analytica,” they said in a report this month. Asked about the Russian oil company, a spokesman for SCL said that in 2014 the firm’s commercial division “discussed helping Lukoil Turkey better engage with its loyalty-card customers at gas stations.” The spokesman said SCL was not ultimately hired. Arash Repac, chief executive of Lukoil Eurasia Petrol, offered a different explanation for the talks. He said that a meeting he attended with SCL in Turkey involved a promotional campaign with local soccer teams. “We needed somebody to guide us with the customer data that we were collecting,” he wrote in response to a question from The Times. “Even though our campaign went ahead, we decided not to cooperate with SCL. No contracts were signed.” But Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge Analytica and develop the company’s voter-profiling technology, said Lukoil showed interest in how the company used data to tailor messaging to American voters. “I remember being super confused,” said Mr. Wylie, who took part in one of the Lukoil meetings. “I kept asking Alexander, ‘Can you explain to me what they want?’” he said, referring to Mr. Nix. “I don’t understand why Lukoil wants to know about political targeting in America.” “We’re sending them stuff about political targeting — they then come and ask more about political targeting,” Mr. Wylie said, adding that Lukoil “just didn’t seem to be interested” in how the techniques could be used commercially. Mr. Wylie, a former contractor, left SCL before the talks concluded and could not say what became of the relationship with the oil company. He had a falling out with SCL and tried to set up a rival business. SCL said he had violated a nondisclosure agreement and that his comments were an attempt to hurt the company. A second person familiar with the discussions backed up Mr. Wylie’s account, but spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a confidentiality agreement. Though Lukoil is not state-owned, it depends on Kremlin support, and its chief executive, Vagit Alekperov, has met with Mr. Putin on a number of occasions. Reuters reported last year that Lukoil and other companies received instructions from the state energy ministry on providing news stories favorable to Russian leadership.

[w425]The Observer view on how Facebook’s destructive ethos imperils democracy The Observer view on how Facebook’s destructive ethos imperils democracy     Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg poses for a selfie with a group of entrepreneurs. Photograph: Jeff Roberson/AP Facebook likes to present itself as a tech company, but often appears more like an advertising corporation that happens to use digital technology in order to conduct its core business. The personal information and data trails left by its 2 billion users to construct detailed profiles allows advertisers to send precisely calibrated advertisements to people who are likely to be susceptible to, or persuaded by, them. Although the original intention was to build an automated machine for delivering commercial messages, it rapidly became clear that the technology could also be used for delivering targeted political messages to voters, and this appears to be what happened in both the Brexit referendum and the 2016 US presidential election. What this meant was that Facebook acquired both political power and serious responsibilities. Revealed: 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach Read more The revelations in our lead story today are shocking not just because they reveal the extent to which Facebook’s advertising system was exploited for political purposes in the 2016 election, but also because they demonstrate the company’s inability to comprehend the responsibilities that accompany its newfound power. The revelations show that a data analytics firm was able to harvest the Facebook profiles of about a third of all US Facebook users, which were then used to construct psychological models of those individuals for campaign purposes. Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video This was no run-of-the-mill cybercrime heist that merely stole credit card details. The information that Facebook holds on its users ( at least 98 data points per user ) is deeply revealing – including of their tastes, preferences, habits, sexuality, politics, hopes and fears. Academic research has shown that even knowledge of a few “Likes” can reveal an astonishing amount about an individual Facebook user. For political campaigners, this is the purest gold dust, because it enables messages to be precisely calibrated, and for this to be done at a scale that was unimaginable in the pre-internet era. In a breathtaking piece of corporate casuistry, Facebook claims that this data harvest was not really a data breach at all, because the researcher who opened the floodgates did so “in a legitimate way and through the proper channels”. The problem, they say, was that the individual in question didn’t abide by the company’s rules because he passed the information on to third parties. A senior Facebook executive told MPs that while the non-breach might have garnered lots of data, “it is not data that we have provided”. Our revelations also show that by late 2015 Facebook had found out that information had been harvested on an unprecedented scale but failed to take firm measures to deal with the consequences or to notify the affected users of what had happened. This seemingly cavalier indolence provides an ironic counterpoint to the company’s latest insistence that “protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do”. In a way, this kind of casual indifference to the unintended consequences of digital technology is par for the Silicon Valley course – where the mantra of “creative destruction” has the status of religious dogma. And it appears to have been a particular hallmark of Facebook. When suspicions about the exploitation of its systems by political actors (including Russian agencies) first surfaced, the reaction of its founder and CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, was one of hurt denial that his creation could have such malign effects. Since then, further allegations have been levelled, and he has been obliged to follow in the footsteps of the hero of Mary Shelley’s novel Frankenstein – gradually forced to come to terms with the implications of the monster that he and his employees have created. The revelations we publish today as part of an award-winning investigation by Carole Cadwalladr should serve as a wake-up call for governments and regulators. Facebook represents a new kind of corporate power, the dimensions of which are only now becoming apparent. The automated machine it built, with the capacity to target individuals with commercial messages, turns out to be exceedingly useful for targeting voters with political messages calibrated to produce political effects – to raise anxiety, reinforce prejudices, suppress turnout, amplify partisanship and increase the reach of misinformation and conspiracy theories. And at the moment, all this can be done under the radar of the institutions that democracies have created to ensure free and fair elections, control campaign funding and maintain transparency about political advertising. Shortly after Facebook became a public company, its founder famously exhorted his employees to “move fast and break things”. It was, of course, a hacker’s trope and, as such, touchingly innocent. What perhaps never occurred to Zuckerberg is that liberal democracy might be one of the things they break. It’s time for him – and them – to grow up. 


[w426] Cambridge Analytica harvested data from millions of unsuspecting Facebook users  Cambridge Analytica harvested data from millions of unsuspecting Facebook users CEO of Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix speaks at the 2016 Concordia Summit - Day 1 at the Grand Hyatt New York on Sep. 19, 2016 in New York City. Cambridge Analytica, a company that profiled voters for Donald Trump’s campaign , allegedly harvested private information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles, which they used to influence and wage a "culture war" during the 2016 election. Whistleblower Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge Analytica and served as their director of research until 2014, told NBC News' U.K. partner ITN Channel 4 News that the company helped develop an application on Facebook that paid individuals to take a survey. If users had not adjusted their privacy settings on the social media outlet, however, the app didn’t just capture the survey responses — it also gathered as much data from each account as possible. That data included information from Facebook users’ friends and contacts, as well. Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. SUBSCRIBE Cambridge Analytica harvested millions of Facebook users' data during presidential election "So by you filling out my survey I capture 300 records on average right," Wylie told ITN Channel 4 News. "And so that means that, all of a sudden, I only need to engage 50,000, 70,000, 100,000 people to get a really big data set really quickly, and it’s scaled really quickly. We were able to get upwards of 50 million plus Facebook records in the span of a couple of months." Similar stories based on the same reporting also appeared in the New York Times and the Observer of London. According to Wylie, the project was of particular importance to Steve Bannon, who later served as the chief executive of Trump's campaign. He added that the former head of the right-wing media organization Breitbart wanted to use the data netted by Cambridge Analytica to influence and galvanize the views of the American public. "Steve wanted weapons for his culture war, that’s what he wanted," Wylie said. "We offered him a way to accomplish what he wanted to do, which was change the culture of America," Wylie added. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman refuted all of Wylie's claims, calling his decision to speak to the media "a malicious attempt to hurt the company." "We were forced to take action against Mr. Christopher Wylie to prevent his misuse of the company's intellectual property and he is the subject of restraining undertakings in this regard," the spokesman said. "It is clear that he has a grudge to bear and appears set on trying to damage the company." But Wylie said in the initial interview that this wasn’t about getting back at Cambridge Analytica, noting that "if it was about revenge I could have done this years ago." Instead, Cambridge Analytica’s former director of research calls his whistleblowing a crisis of conscience. "It weighs on me that I played a pivotal role in setting up a company that I think has done a lot of harm to the democratic process in a lot of countries," Wylie said. The idea behind the project was that political preferences can be predicted by personal details people voluntarily provide on their social media accounts. By analyzing the details that users share online, Cambridge Analytica could predict individual behavior, which included voter preferences and how to influence that preference. CEO of Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix speaks at the 2016 Concordia Summit - Day 1 at the Grand Hyatt New York on Sep. 19, 2016 in New York City. "Whenever you go and you like something you are giving me a clue as to who you are as a person," Wylie said. "And so all of this can be captured very easily and run through an algorithm that learns who you are." Wylie said that "almost none" of the people whose profiles were tapped were aware that Cambridge Analytica had harvested their data. The research all began in 2013 at Cambridge University, according to ITN Channel 4 News, where the university's psychometrics center began to examine the psychology behind Facebook and what information could be gleaned by pulling the data from user profiles. According to Wylie, Bannon hoped to use that research and replicate it on a massive scale across the American electorate to buoy his influence campaign in 2014 and again in the 2016 presidential campaign. Billionaire Republican donors Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebecca — who own a portion of Cambridge Analytica — put Bannon in contact with the founder of the method, Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, ITN Channel 4 News. "Kogan didn’t make any money off of it, he didn't," Wylie said. "He did it for free, and what he got out of it was the giant data set and what [Cambridge Analytica] got out of it was also data, everyone got data. But Cambridge Analytica paid for it directly." Cambridge Analytica appeared to lay the blame on Kogan and his company Global Science Research (GSR), which is not associated with Cambridge University. "This company, Global Science Research (GSR), was contractually committed by us to only obtain data in accordance with the UK Data Protection Act and to seek the informed consent of each respondent," Cambridge Analytica said in a statement issued Saturday. "When it subsequently became clear that the data had not been obtained by GSR in line with Facebook’s terms of service, Cambridge Analytica deleted all data received from GSR," the statement added. According to ITN Channel 4 News, Kogan said he held the right to use the data for commercial purposes and did nothing wrong. Meanwhile, the Trump campaign paid Cambridge Analytica $5 million to help target voters. The company told NBC News mere days before the 2016 election that it held data on 230 million American adults with approximately 4,000 “data points” on each of them. FROM NOV. 2016: Cambridge Analytica Explain the Value of Big Data The company denied, however, using any data that was harvested from Facebook via Kogan’s methods to help the Trump campaign. "No data from GSR was used by Cambridge Analytica as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign," the company added in Saturday's statement. Facebook said in a statement that "Protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do, and we require the same from people who operate apps on Facebook." The social media provider added that Cambridge Analytica, Wylie and Kogan had told the company that all the data initially obtained by the app had been destroyed. "In light of new reports that the data was not destroyed, we are suspending these three parties from Facebook, pending further information," Facebook said. "We will take whatever steps are required to see that the data in question is deleted once and for all — and take action against all offending parties." The social media company also insists that this did not constitute a data breach, as users technically consented — via their privacy settings — to allow Cambridge Analytica to harvest their data. Related: Facebook suspends Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Trump campaign But Wylie does not think Facebook is completely innocent, as the social media giant first knew of the data gathering in 2015. "Why Facebook didn't, you know, make more enquiries when they started seeing that, you know, tens of millions of records were being pulled this way? I don’t know you’d have to ask Facebook that," Wylie said. "But Facebook at least in a technical sense facilitated the project because they had applications that had these permissions in the first place." According to Wylie, Facebook never checked that they had deleted the data, only requiring that Cambridge Analytica fill out a form. And thanks to the lack of oversight, this influence-peddling company was able to "move into the hearts and minds of American voters in a way that had never been done before." And they did it in a way that entered a more than ethical grey area, according to Wylie, who claims they attempted to manipulate voters by latching onto their vulnerabilities. "This gets at the heart of, you know, why is it that you’re taking this psychological approach?" he said. "Why is it that you need to study things like shame proneness in people? Why do you need to, you know, study neuroticism in people? What’s going to make them fearful?" 


[w434] How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of Millions - The New York Times   (After this story was published, Facebook came under harsh criticism from lawmakers in the United States and Britain. Read the latest .) LONDON — As the upstart voter-profiling company Cambridge Analytica prepared to wade into the 2014 American midterm elections, it had a problem. The firm had secured a $15 million investment from Robert Mercer , the wealthy Republican donor, and wooed his political adviser, Stephen K. Bannon, with the promise of tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior. But it did not have the data to make its new products work. So the firm harvested private information from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission, according to former Cambridge employees, associates and documents, making it one of the largest data leaks in the social network’s history. The breach allowed the company to exploit the private social media activity of a huge swath of the American electorate, developing techniques that underpinned its work on President Trump’s campaign in 2016. An examination by The New York Times and The Observer of London reveals how Cambridge Analytica’s drive to bring to market a potentially powerful new weapon put the firm — and wealthy conservative investors seeking to reshape politics — under scrutiny from investigators and lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic. Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge and worked there until late 2014, said of its leaders: “Rules don’t matter for them. For them, this is a war, and it’s all fair.” “They want to fight a culture war in America,” he added. “Cambridge Analytica was supposed to be the arsenal of weapons to fight that culture war.” Details of Cambridge’s acquisition and use of Facebook data have surfaced in several accounts since the business began working on the 2016 campaign, setting off a furious debate about the merits of the firm’s so-called psychographic modeling techniques. But the full scale of the data leak involving Americans has not been previously disclosed — and Facebook, until now, has not acknowledged it. Interviews with a half-dozen former employees and contractors, and a review of the firm’s emails and documents, have revealed that Cambridge not only relied on the private Facebook data but still possesses most or all of the trove. Cambridge paid to acquire the personal information through an outside researcher who, Facebook says, claimed to be collecting it for academic purposes. During a week of inquiries from The Times, Facebook downplayed the scope of the leak and questioned whether any of the data still remained out of its control. But on Friday, the company posted a statement expressing alarm and promising to take action. “This was a scam — and a fraud,” Paul Grewal, a vice president and deputy general counsel at the social network, said in a statement to The Times earlier on Friday. He added that the company was suspending Cambridge Analytica, Mr. Wylie and the researcher, Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American academic, from Facebook. “We will take whatever steps are required to see that the data in question is deleted once and for all — and take action against all offending parties,” Mr. Grewal said. Alexander Nix, the chief executive of Cambridge Analytica , and other officials had repeatedly denied obtaining or using Facebook data, most recently during a parliamentary hearing last month. But in a statement to The Times, the company acknowledged that it had acquired the data, though it blamed Mr. Kogan for violating Facebook’s rules and said it had deleted the information as soon as it learned of the problem two years ago. In Britain, Cambridge Analytica is facing intertwined investigations by Parliament and government regulators into allegations that it performed illegal work on the “Brexit” campaign. The country has strict privacy laws, and its information commissioner announced on Saturday that she was looking into whether the Facebook data was “illegally acquired and used.” In the United States, Mr. Mercer’s daughter, Rebekah, a board member, Mr. Bannon and Mr. Nix received warnings from their lawyer that it was illegal to employ foreigners in political campaigns, according to company documents and former employees. Congressional investigators have questioned Mr. Nix about the company’s role in the Trump campaign. And the Justice Department’s special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has demanded the emails of Cambridge Analytica employees who worked for the Trump team as part of his investigation into Russian interference in the election. While the substance of Mr. Mueller’s interest is a closely guarded secret, documents viewed by The Times indicate that the firm’s British affiliate claims to have worked in Russia and Ukraine. And the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, disclosed in October that Mr. Nix had reached out to him during the campaign in hopes of obtaining private emails belonging to Mr. Trump’s Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. The documents also raise new questions about Facebook, which is already grappling with intense criticism over the spread of Russian propaganda and fake news. The data Cambridge collected from profiles, a portion of which was viewed by The Times, included details on users’ identities, friend networks and “likes.” Only a tiny fraction of the users had agreed to release their information to a third party. “Protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do,” Mr. Grewal said. “No systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.” Still, he added, “it’s a serious abuse of our rules.” Reading Voters’ Minds The Bordeaux flowed freely as Mr. Nix and several colleagues sat down for dinner at the Palace Hotel in Manhattan in late 2013, Mr. Wylie recalled in an interview. They had much to celebrate. Mr. Nix, a brash salesman, led the small elections division at SCL Group, a political and defense contractor. He had spent much of the year trying to break into the lucrative new world of political data, recruiting Mr. Wylie, then a 24-year-old political operative with ties to veterans of President Obama’s campaigns. Mr. Wylie was interested in using inherent psychological traits to affect voters’ behavior and had assembled a team of psychologists and data scientists, some of them affiliated with Cambridge University. The group experimented abroad, including in the Caribbean and Africa, where privacy rules were lax or nonexistent and politicians employing SCL were happy to provide government-held data, former employees said. Then a chance meeting brought Mr. Nix into contact with Mr. Bannon, the Breitbart News firebrand who would later become a Trump campaign and White House adviser, and with Mr. Mercer, one of the richest men on earth . Mr. Nix and his colleagues courted Mr. Mercer, who believed a sophisticated data company could make him a kingmaker in Republican politics, and his daughter Rebekah, who shared his conservative views. Mr. Bannon was intrigued by the possibility of using personality profiling to shift America’s culture and rewire its politics, recalled Mr. Wylie and other former employees, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they had signed nondisclosure agreements. Mr. Bannon and the Mercers declined to comment. Mr. Mercer agreed to help finance a $1.5 million pilot project to poll voters and test psychographic messaging in Virginia’s gubernatorial race in November 2013, where the Republican attorney general, Ken Cuccinelli, ran against Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic fund-raiser. Though Mr. Cuccinelli lost, Mr. Mercer committed to moving forward. The Mercers wanted results quickly, and more business beckoned. In early 2014, the investor Toby Neugebauer and other wealthy conservatives were preparing to put tens of millions of dollars behind a presidential campaign for Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, work that Mr. Nix was eager to win. When Mr. Wylie’s colleagues failed to produce a memo explaining their work to Mr. Neugebauer, Mr. Nix castigated them over email. “ITS 2 PAGES!! 4 hours work max (or an hour each). What have you all been doing??” he wrote. Mr. Wylie’s team had a bigger problem. Building psychographic profiles on a national scale required data the company could not gather without huge expense. Traditional analytics firms used voting records and consumer purchase histories to try to predict political beliefs and voting behavior. But those kinds of records were useless for figuring out whether a particular voter was, say, a neurotic introvert, a religious extrovert, a fair-minded liberal or a fan of the occult. Those were among the psychological traits the firm claimed would provide a uniquely powerful means of designing political messages. Mr. Wylie found a solution at Cambridge University’s Psychometrics Centre. Researchers there had developed a technique to map personality traits based on what people had liked on Facebook. The researchers paid users small sums to take a personality quiz and download an app, which would scrape some private information from their profiles and those of their friends, activity that Facebook permitted at the time. The approach, the scientists said, could reveal more about a person than their parents or romantic partners knew — a claim that has been disputed. When the Psychometrics Centre declined to work with the firm, Mr. Wylie found someone who would: Dr. Kogan, who was then a psychology professor at the university and knew of the techniques. Dr. Kogan built his own app and in June 2014 began harvesting data for Cambridge Analytica. The business covered the costs — more than $800,000 — and allowed him to keep a copy for his own research, according to company emails and financial records. All he divulged to Facebook, and to users in fine print, was that he was collecting information for academic purposes, the social network said. It did not verify his claim. Dr. Kogan declined to provide details of what happened, citing nondisclosure agreements with Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, though he maintained that his program was “a very standard vanilla Facebook app.” He ultimately provided over 50 million raw profiles to the firm, Mr. Wylie said, a number confirmed by a company email and a former colleague. Of those, roughly 30 million — a number previously reported by The Intercept — contained enough information, including places of residence, that the company could match users to other records and build psychographic profiles. Only about 270,000 users — those who participated in the survey — had consented to having their data harvested. Mr. Wylie said the Facebook data was “the saving grace” that let his team deliver the models it had promised the Mercers. “We wanted as much as we could get,” he acknowledged. “Where it came from, who said we could have it — we weren’t really asking.” Mr. Nix tells a different story. Appearing before a parliamentary committee last month, he described Dr. Kogan’s contributions as “fruitless.” An International Effort Just as Dr. Kogan’s efforts were getting underway, Mr. Mercer agreed to invest $15 million in a joint venture with SCL’s elections division. The partners devised a convoluted corporate structure, forming a new American company, owned almost entirely by Mr. Mercer, with a license to the psychographics platform developed by Mr. Wylie’s team, according to company documents. Mr. Bannon, who became a board member and investor, chose the name: Cambridge Analytica. The firm was effectively a shell. According to the documents and former employees, any contracts won by Cambridge, originally incorporated in Delaware, would be serviced by London-based SCL and overseen by Mr. Nix, a British citizen who held dual appointments at Cambridge Analytica and SCL. Most SCL employees and contractors were Canadian, like Mr. Wylie, or European. But in July 2014, an American election lawyer advising the company, Laurence Levy, warned that the arrangement could violate laws limiting the involvement of foreign nationals in American elections. In a memo to Mr. Bannon, Ms. Mercer and Mr. Nix, the lawyer, then at the firm Bracewell & Giuliani, warned that Mr. Nix would have to recuse himself “from substantive management” of any clients involved in United States elections. The data firm would also have to find American citizens or green card holders, Mr. Levy wrote, “to manage the work and decision making functions, relative to campaign messaging and expenditures.” In summer and fall 2014, Cambridge Analytica dived into the American midterm elections, mobilizing SCL contractors and employees around the country. Few Americans were involved in the work, which included polling, focus groups and message development for the John Bolton Super PAC, conservative groups in Colorado and the campaign of Senator Thom Tillis, the North Carolina Republican. Cambridge Analytica, in its statement to The Times, said that all “personnel in strategic roles were U.S. nationals or green card holders.” Mr. Nix “never had any strategic or operational role” in an American election campaign, the company said. Whether the company’s American ventures violated election laws would depend on foreign employees’ roles in each campaign, and on whether their work counted as strategic advice under Federal Election Commission rules. Cambridge Analytica appears to have exhibited a similar pattern in the 2016 election cycle, when the company worked for the campaigns of Mr. Cruz and then Mr. Trump. While Cambridge hired more Americans to work on the races that year, most of its data scientists were citizens of the United Kingdom or other European countries, according to two former employees. Under the guidance of Brad Parscale, Mr. Trump’s digital director in 2016 and now the campaign manager for his 2020 re-election effort, Cambridge performed a variety of services, former campaign officials said. That included designing target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals, modeling voter turnout, buying $5 million in television ads and determining where Mr. Trump should travel to best drum up support. Cambridge executives have offered conflicting accounts about the use of psychographic data on the campaign. Mr. Nix has said that the firm’s profiles helped shape Mr. Trump’s strategy — statements disputed by other campaign officials — but also that Cambridge did not have enough time to comprehensively model Trump voters. In a BBC interview last December, Mr. Nix said that the Trump efforts drew on “legacy psychographics” built for the Cruz campaign. After the Leak By early 2015, Mr. Wylie and more than half his original team of about a dozen people had left the company. Most were liberal-leaning, and had grown disenchanted with working on behalf of the hard-right candidates the Mercer family favored. Cambridge Analytica, in its statement, said that Mr. Wylie had left to start a rival firm, and that it later took legal action against him to enforce intellectual property claims. It characterized Mr. Wylie and other former “contractors” as engaging in “what is clearly a malicious attempt to hurt the company.” Near the end of that year, a report in The Guardian revealed that Cambridge Analytica was using private Facebook data on the Cruz campaign, sending Facebook scrambling. In a statement at the time, Facebook promised that it was “carefully investigating this situation” and would require any company misusing its data to destroy it. Facebook verified the leak and — without publicly acknowledging it — sought to secure the information, efforts that continued as recently as August 2016. That month, lawyers for the social network reached out to Cambridge Analytica contractors. “This data was obtained and used without permission,” said a letter that was obtained by the Times. “It cannot be used legitimately in the future and must be deleted immediately.” Mr. Grewal, the Facebook deputy general counsel, said in a statement that both Dr. Kogan and “SCL Group and Cambridge Analytica certified to us that they destroyed the data in question.” But copies of the data still remain beyond Facebook’s control. The Times viewed a set of raw data from the profiles Cambridge Analytica obtained. While Mr. Nix has told lawmakers that the company does not have Facebook data, a former employee said that he had recently seen hundreds of gigabytes on Cambridge servers, and that the files were not encrypted. Today, as Cambridge Analytica seeks to expand its business in the United States and overseas, Mr. Nix has mentioned some questionable practices. This January, in undercover footage filmed by Channel 4 News in Britain and viewed by The Times, he boasted of employing front companies and former spies on behalf of political clients around the world, and even suggested ways to entrap politicians in compromising situations. All the scrutiny appears to have damaged Cambridge Analytica’s political business. No American campaigns or “super PACs” have yet reported paying the company for work in the 2018 midterms, and it is unclear whether Cambridge will be asked to join Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign. In the meantime, Mr. Nix is seeking to take psychographics to the commercial advertising market. He has repositioned himself as a guru for the digital ad age — a “Math Man,” he puts it . In the United States last year, a former employee said, Cambridge pitched Mercedes-Benz, MetLife and the brewer AB InBev, but has not signed them on. 

[w435] 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach      Revealed: 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach  and Sat 17 Mar 2018 First published on Sat 17 Mar 2018    Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video The data analytics firm that worked with Donald Trump’s election team and the winning Brexit campaign harvested millions of Facebook profiles of US voters, in one of the tech giant’s biggest ever data breaches, and used them to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. A whistleblower has revealed to the Observer how Cambridge Analytica – a company owned by the hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, and headed at the time by Trump’s key adviser Steve Bannon – used personal information taken without authorisation in early 2014 to build a system that could profile individual US voters, in order to target them with personalised political advertisements. Christopher Wylie, who worked with a Cambridge University academic to obtain the data, told the Observer : “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on.” Documents seen by the Observer , and confirmed by a Facebook statement, show that by late 2015 the company had found out that information had been harvested on an unprecedented scale. However, at the time it failed to alert users and took only limited steps to recover and secure the private information of more than 50 million individuals. Cambridge Analytica: the key players  Alexander Nix, CEO An Old Etonian with a degree from Manchester University, Nix, 42, worked as a financial analyst in Mexico and the UK before joining SCL, a strategic communications firm, in 2003. From 2007 he took over the company’s elections division, and claims to have worked on 260 campaigns globally. He set up Cambridge Analytica to work in America, with investment from Robert Mercer.  Aleksandr Kogan, data miner Aleksandr Kogan was born in Moldova and lived in Moscow until the age of seven, then moved with his family to the US, where he became a naturalised citizen. He studied at the University of California, Berkeley, and got his PhD at the University of Hong Kong before joining Cambridge as a lecturer in psychology and expert in social media psychometrics. He set up Global Science Research (GSR) to carry out CA’s data research. While at Cambridge he accepted a position at St Petersburg State University, and also took Russian government grants for research. He changed his name to Spectre when he married, but later reverted to Kogan. Steve Bannon, former board member A former investment banker turned “alt-right” media svengali, Steve Bannon was boss at website Breitbart when he met Christopher Wylie and Nix and advised Robert Mercer to invest in political data research by setting up CA. In August 2016 he became Donald Trump’s campaign CEO. Bannon encouraged the reality TV star to embrace the “populist, economic nationalist” agenda that would carry him into the White House. That earned Bannon the post of chief strategist to the president and for a while he was arguably the second most powerful man in America. By August 2017 his relationship with Trump had soured and he was out. Robert Mercer, investor Robert Mercer, 71, is a computer scientist and hedge fund billionaire, who used his fortune to become one of the most influential men in US politics as a top Republican donor. An AI expert, he made a fortune with quantitative trading pioneers Renaissance Technologies, then built a $60m war chest to back conservative causes by using an offshore investment vehicle to avoid US tax.  Rebekah Mercer, investor Rebekah Mercer has a maths degree from Stanford, and worked as a trader, but her influence comes primarily from her father’s billions. The fortysomething, the second of Mercer’s three daughters, heads up the family foundation which channels money to rightwing groups. The conservative mega‑donors backed Breitbart, Bannon and, most influentially, poured millions into Trump’s presidential campaign. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. The New York Times is reporting that copies of the data harvested for Cambridge Analytica could still be found online; its reporting team had viewed some of the raw data. The data was collected through an app called thisisyourdigitallife, built by academic Aleksandr Kogan, separately from his work at Cambridge University. Through his company Global Science Research (GSR), in collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, hundreds of thousands of users were paid to take a personality test and agreed to have their data collected for academic use. However, the app also collected the information of the test-takers’ Facebook friends, leading to the accumulation of a data pool tens of millions-strong. Facebook’s “platform policy” allowed only collection of friends’ data to improve user experience in the app and barred it being sold on or used for advertising. The discovery of the unprecedented data harvesting, and the use to which it was put, raises urgent new questions about Facebook’s role in targeting voters in the US presidential election. It comes only weeks after indictments of 13 Russians by the special counsel Robert Mueller which stated they had used the platform to perpetrate “information warfare” against the US. Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are one focus of an inquiry into data and politics by the British Information Commissioner’s Office. Separately, the Electoral Commission is also investigating what role Cambridge Analytica played in the EU referendum. “We are investigating the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used,” said the information commissioner Elizabeth Denham. “It’s part of our ongoing investigation into the use of data analytics for political purposes which was launched to consider how political parties and campaigns, data analytics companies and social media platforms in the UK are using and analysing people’s personal information to micro-target voters.” On Friday, four days after the Observer sought comment for this story, but more than two years after the data breach was first reported, Facebook announced that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica and Kogan from the platform, pending further information over misuse of data. Separately, Facebook’s external lawyers warned the Observer it was making “false and defamatory” allegations, and reserved Facebook’s legal position.      Key Trump adviser Steve Bannon Photograph: Alain Robert/Sipa/Rex/Shutterstock The revelations provoked widespread outrage. The Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey announced that the state would be launching an investigation. “Residents deserve answers immediately from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica,” she said on Twitter. The Democratic senator Mark Warner said the harvesting of data on such a vast scale for political targeting underlined the need for Congress to improve controls. He has proposed an Honest Ads Act to regulate online political advertising the same way as television, radio and print. “This story is more evidence that the online political advertising market is essentially the Wild West. Whether it’s allowing Russians to purchase political ads, or extensive micro-targeting based on ill-gotten user data, it’s clear that, left unregulated, this market will continue to be prone to deception and lacking in transparency,” he said. Last month both Facebook and the CEO of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, told a parliamentary inquiry on fake news: that the company did not have or use private Facebook data. Simon Milner, Facebook’s UK policy director, when asked if Cambridge Analytica had Facebook data, told MPs: “They may have lots of data but it will not be Facebook user data. It may be data about people who are on Facebook that they have gathered themselves, but it is not data that we have provided.” Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, told the inquiry: “We do not work with Facebook data and we do not have Facebook data.” Wylie, a Canadian data analytics expert who worked with Cambridge Analytica and Kogan to devise and implement the scheme, showed a dossier of evidence about the data misuse to the Observer which appears to raise questions about their testimony. He has passed it to the National Crime Agency’s cybercrime unit and the Information Commissioner’s Office. It includes emails, invoices, contracts and bank transfers that reveal more than 50 million profiles – mostly belonging to registered US voters – were harvested from the site in one of the largest-ever breaches of Facebook data. Facebook on Friday said that it was also suspending Wylie from accessing the platform while it carried out its investigation, despite his role as a whistleblower. At the time of the data breach, Wylie was a Cambridge Analytica employee, but Facebook described him as working for Eunoia Technologies, a firm he set up on his own after leaving his former employer in late 2014. The evidence Wylie supplied to UK and US authorities includes a letter from Facebook’s own lawyers sent to him in August 2016, asking him to destroy any data he held that had been collected by GSR, the company set up by Kogan to harvest the profiles. Cambridge Analytica interactive That legal letter was sent several months after the Guardian first reported the breach and days before it was officially announced that Bannon was taking over as campaign manager for Trump and bringing Cambridge Analytica with him. “Because this data was obtained and used without permission, and because GSR was not authorised to share or sell it to you, it cannot be used legitimately in the future and must be deleted immediately,” the letter said. Facebook did not pursue a response when the letter initially went unanswered for weeks because Wylie was travelling, nor did it follow up with forensic checks on his computers or storage, he said. “That to me was the most astonishing thing. They waited two years and did absolutely nothing to check that the data was deleted. All they asked me to do was tick a box on a form and post it back.” Paul-Olivier Dehaye, a data protection specialist, who spearheaded the investigative efforts into the tech giant, said: “Facebook has denied and denied and denied this. It has misled MPs and congressional investigators and it’s failed in its duties to respect the law. “It has a legal obligation to inform regulators and individuals about this data breach, and it hasn’t. It’s failed time and time again to be open and transparent.” We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of profiles. And built models to exploit that and target their inner demons Christopher Wylie A majority of American states have laws requiring notification in some cases of data breach, including California, where Facebook is based. Facebook denies that the harvesting of tens of millions of profiles by GSR and Cambridge Analytica was a data breach. It said in a statement that Kogan “gained access to this information in a legitimate way and through the proper channels” but “did not subsequently abide by our rules” because he passed the information on to third parties. Facebook said it removed the app in 2015 and required certification from everyone with copies that the data had been destroyed, although the letter to Wylie did not arrive until the second half of 2016. “We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information. We will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” Paul Grewal, Facebook’s vice-president, said in a statement. The company is now investigating reports that not all data had been deleted. Kogan, who has previously unreported links to a Russian university and took Russian grants for research, had a licence from Facebook to collect profile data, but it was for research purposes only. So when he hoovered up information for the commercial venture, he was violating the company’s terms. Kogan maintains everything he did was legal, and says he had a “close working relationship” with Facebook, which had granted him permission for his apps. How the story unfolded  In December 2016, while researching the US presidential election, Carole Cadwalladr came across data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, whose secretive manner and chequered track record belied its bland, academic-sounding name. Her initial investigations uncovered the role of US billionaire Robert Mercer in the US election campaign: his strategic “war” on mainstream media and his political campaign funding, some apparently linked to Brexit . She found the first indications that Cambridge Analytica might have used data processing methods that breached the Data Protection Act. That article prompted Britain’s Electoral Commission and the Information Commissioner’s Office to launch investigations whose remits include Cambridge Analytica’s use of data and its possible links to the EU referendum. These investigations are continuing, as is a wider ICO inquiry into the use of data in politics. While chasing the details and ramifications of complex manipulation of both data and funding law, Cadwalladr came under increasing attacks, both online and professionally, from key players. The Leave.EU campaign tweeted a doctored video that showed her being violently assaulted, and the Russian embassy wrote to the Observer to complain that her reporting was a “textbook example of bad journalism”. But the growing profile of her reports also gave whistleblowers confidence that they could trust her to not only understand their stories, but retell them clearly for a wide audience. Her network of sources and contacts grew to include not only former employees who regretted their work but academics, lawyers and others concerned about the impact on democracy of tactics employed by Cambridge Analytica and associates. Cambridge Analytica is now the subject of special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s probing of the company’s role in Donald Trump’s presidential election campaign. Investigations in the UK remain live. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. The Observer has seen a contract dated 4 June 2014, which confirms SCL, an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica, entered into a commercial arrangement with GSR, entirely premised on harvesting and processing Facebook data. Cambridge Analytica spent nearly $1m on data collection, which yielded more than 50 million individual profiles that could be matched to electoral rolls. It then used the test results and Facebook data to build an algorithm that could analyse individual Facebook profiles and determine personality traits linked to voting behaviour. The algorithm and database together made a powerful political tool . It allowed a campaign to identify possible swing voters and craft messages more likely to resonate. “The ultimate product of the training set is creating a ‘gold standard’ of understanding personality from Facebook profile information,” the contract specifies. It promises to create a database of 2 million “matched” profiles, identifiable and tied to electoral registers, across 11 states, but with room to expand much further. Key players At the time, more than 50 million profiles represented around a third of active North American Facebook users, and nearly a quarter of potential US voters. Yet when asked by MPs if any of his firm’s data had come from GSR, Nix said: “We had a relationship with GSR. They did some research for us back in 2014. That research proved to be fruitless and so the answer is no.” Cambridge Analytica said that its contract with GSR stipulated that Kogan should seek informed consent for data collection and it had no reason to believe he would not. GSR was “led by a seemingly reputable academic at an internationally renowned institution who made explicit contractual commitments to us regarding its legal authority to license data to SCL Elections”, a company spokesman said. SCL Elections, an affiliate, worked with Facebook over the period to ensure it was satisfied no terms had been “knowingly breached” and provided a signed statement that all data and derivatives had been deleted, he said. Cambridge Analytica also said none of the data was used in the 2016 presidential election. Steve Bannon’s lawyer said he had no comment because his client “knows nothing about the claims being asserted”. He added: “The first Mr Bannon heard of these reports was from media inquiries in the past few days.” He directed inquires to Nix.  Facebook CEO exploited ability to access data from any user’s friend network, US case claims  Zuckerberg set up fraudulent scheme to 'weaponise' data, court case alleges     Company gathered data from texts and photos of users and their friends, court case claims  Facebook accused of conducting mass surveillance through its apps     Dominic Cummings says move would prove campaign did not use data gathered improperly by Cambridge Analytica  Publish all Vote Leave's data, campaign chief challenges Facebook     Political consultancy, under fire over use of millions of Facebook users’ data, has begun insolvency proceedings  Cambridge Analytica closing after Facebook data harvesting scandal    The six weeks that brought Cambridge Analytica down   What does Cambridge Analytica closing mean for the Facebook data scandal?   We met Cambridge Analytica but didn't use them – Business Council of Australia   MPs threaten Mark Zuckerberg with summons over Facebook data   


[w436]   						Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg in 2015. (Jim Gensheimer/Bay Area News Group)		 By Ethan Baron | ebaron@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: March 17, 2018 at 9:00 pm | UPDATED: March 19, 2018 at 6:11 am MENLO PARK — A U.S. senator is demanding that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee, after reports that a company employed by President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign accessed profile data from more than 50 million Facebook users without their permission. “This is a major breach that must be investigated,” Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat and member of the committee, tweeted Saturday. “It’s clear these platforms can’t police themselves … They say ‘trust us.’ Mark Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary.” The Judiciary Committee oversees the Department of Justice and examines proposed legislation. Klobuchar is ranking member of the subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights. The committee, Republican led, has subpoena power. Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the senator’s demand. Furor over the Menlo Park social media giant’s leak comes as major Silicon Valley tech firms face increasing calls for their regulation, driven by concerns about market dominance, use of their platforms by Russian trolls for election meddling, and extremist, exploitative and offensive content. Klobuchar, with fellow Democratic Sen. Mark Warner and Republican Sen. John McCain, has proposed a bill called the Honest Ads Act to force large tech companies such as Facebook, Google and Twitter to make public certain information about political ads on their platforms. Europe in May will begin imposing strict new rules on the processing and movement of personal data, mandating “unambiguous” consent by consumers and allowing fines up to 4 percent of a company’s global annual revenue. Cambridge Analytica harvested profile information from more than 50 million Facebook users without their permission, the Associated Press reported. On Friday evening, Facebook — with the New York Times poised to publish on Saturday an article about the massive data leak — admitted in a news release that Cambridge Analytica had years ago obtained user data from a “personality prediction” app that was downloaded by about 270,000 people. The app developer could then access “information such as the city they set on their profile, or content they had liked, as well as more limited information about friends who had their privacy settings set to allow it,” Facebook said. The developer accessed the data through what were the proper channels at the time, but “lied to us and violated our Platform Policies by passing data (to) Cambridge Analytica,” the company said. Facebook subsequently changed the rules governing developers’ use of its data, and now requires them to justify and explain proposed data collection before they’re allowed to access user information or ask for it, the company said. Cambridge Analytica denied wrongdoing, saying it had deleted the data it received from the developer. Facebook, however, said in its news release that it had received reports several days ago that not all the data was deleted. “We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims,” the company said. Cambridge Analytica, linked to Trump campaign strategist Steve Bannon, used the data to develop techniques that formed the foundation of its work on the Trump campaign, The New York Times and The Guardian reported. Cambridge said in a statement none of the data it received from the developer was used for services provided to the Trump campaign. “Cambridge Analytica only receives​ and use​s​ data that has been obtained legally and fairly,” said the company, adding that it had deleted the developer’s data when it “became clear” that it broke Facebook’s terms of service. Facebook executives took to Twitter on Saturday to argue strenuously that the data leak was not a data breach. “This was unequivocally not a data breach,” tweeted longtime executive Andrew Bosworth. “People chose to share their data with third party apps and if those third party apps did not follow the data agreements with us/users it is a violation. No systems were infiltrated, no passwords or information were stolen or hacked.” One of the New York Times reporters who wrote the newspaper’s story on the leak responded. “Facebook officials today playing semantic — but legally very important to regulators — word games about a data ‘breach,'” Nick Confessore‏ tweeted. “But who needs to steal passwords when Facebook will just give some dude access to your profile and not even check his app out that closely?”     


[w437]  One of the data scientists involved in the Cambridge Analytica mess now works at Facebook.          One of the Data Scientists Involved in the Cambridge Analytica Mess Now Works at Facebook By       Thumbs up! JOSH EDELSON/Getty Images  One of the founding directors of Global Science Research, the firm hired by the Trump campaign’s data-targeting firm, Cambridge Analytica, to harvest Facebook user data for its voter-outreach operation, now works at Facebook as a human computer interaction researcher.  According to the United Kingdom’s registry of companies , Joseph Chancellor worked with Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American psychology professor at the University of Cambridge, to launch the company in May 2014. The Intercept first reported their ties and Chancellor’s employment at Facebook last year. According to Facebook’s website , he still works there.  A screenshot from Global Science Research’s certificate of incorporation. Companies House   Global Science Research was paid more than $800,000 to build an app in June 2014 for Cambridge Analytica that was used to harvest Facebook user data through a personality quiz that scraped data from its respondents as well as data from their friends, according to a report in the New York Times . Facebook’s app developer policy at the time allowed developers to siphon data on users’ friend networks, too, but the company says that policy has since been updated to let users choose what data they’ll let Facebook share about them.   In a statement Friday night, Facebook said about 270,000 users downloaded the app, though the New York Times reported that Kogan and Chancellor’s company provided about 50 million user profiles to Cambridge Analytica, which may have been possible through connections to the hundreds or thousands of friends one may have on Facebook. I asked Facebook for comment on Chancellor on Saturday and will update when I hear back.   Cambridge Analytica was hired to work for the Trump campaign in June 2016, about six months after the Guardian revealed the company was using tens of millions Facebook users’ data in its work on then-contender Ted Cruz’s presidential campaign without their knowledge. At that point in 2015, Facebook acknowledged that its user data was being misused by Cambridge Analytica, but the company didn’t alert users or issue a public statement. The company did, however, contact Cambridge Analytica, as well as Kogan and Christopher Wylie, who used to work at Cambridge Analytica, to demand they destroy the data and certify that they did so. Facebook said that although the company received confirmations that the data had been deleted, several days ago it learned that was not the case. The New York Times reported that its reporters had seen a portion of the data set Global Science Research provided to Cambridge Analytica.   Krogan and Chancellor courted Facebook users to take their quiz by posting it to the Mechanical Turk marketplace, a platform run by Amazon that pays digital laborers anywhere from a few cents to a few dollars for performing menial tasks online, like flagging porn or looking for broken links. Their quiz, called “thisisyourdigitallife,” offered $1 or $2, but required participants install the Facebook app, be American, and allow access to their friend data.  Chancellor’s employee profile on Facebook’s website says he’s a “quantitative social psychologist” who studied at the University of Cambridge and the University of California, Riverside. His listed research interests include happiness, emotions, humility, and advertising. 


[w439] Facebook vastly downplayed scope of data leak involving info on 50 mil 03.17.18 Facebook vastly downplayed scope of data leak involving info on 50 million users [Photo: Max DeRoin /Pexels] By Marcus Baram Late last night, Facebook released a statement announcing that it was suspending data analytics firm Cambridge Analytics, sternly describing how the firm had improperly obtained personal data from 270,000 people who had downloaded a personality prediction app. The implication was that the social network was being proactive , taking action against a bad player. “We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” vowed Facebook VP and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal.  “We will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens.” advertisement What Facebook didn’t reveal was the true extent of the data leak—which the New York Times  and The Guardian   disclosed in stories they published just hours after the company’s announcement. The real story was much worse. In total, more than 50 million Facebook profiles were harvested by Cambridge Analytica to build a system to target U.S. voters with political ads, a whistleblower told the papers. Even more stunning, though the firm told Facebook that it had deleted all the data, it turns out that Cambridge Analytics “still possesses most or all of the trove.” Watch the Guardian’s video interview with former Cambridge researcher and whistleblower Christopher Wylie: For the firm’s leaders, including board member and later Trump adviser Steve Bannon, it was all about doing battle against their political enemies. “Rules don’t matter for them. For them, this is a war, and it’s all fair,” CA founder Christopher Wylie told the Times . “They want to fight a culture war in America,” he added. “Cambridge Analytica was supposed to be the arsenal of weapons to fight that culture war.” The firm, which assisted the Trump campaign with targeting voters and received a $15 million investment from conservative donor Robert Mercer, is now in the headlights of congressional investigators and Special Counsel Robert Mueller, whose team demanded and received in December internal documents about its work on the campaign.  



[w453]  Trump’s campaign team used stolen Facebook data, ex-employee of Cambridge Analytica says By As investigation into Russia influence in the last staged US presidential elections deepens, an ex- Cambridge Analytica employee has accused his former employers of mishandling the personal information of more than 50 million Facebook users in an effort to help Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Christopher Wylie, who helped found Cambridge Analytica and worked there until late 2014, told ABC News the company would use the information, including Facebook users’ hometowns, friends and “likes” to influence the behaviour of potential voters. “Cambridge Analytica will try to pick at whatever mental weakness or vulnerability that we think you have and try to warp your perception of what’s real around you,” Wylie told ABC News in the interview. “If you are looking to create an information weapon, the battle space you operate in is social media. That is where the fight happens.” Read also: Two days ago, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica, a data-analysis firm that worked for the Trump campaign, while it investigates whether the company held onto improperly obtained user data after telling Facebook it had deleted the information. The social network said in a blog post that the firm violated its policies by receiving user data from a Facebook app created by a University of Cambridge professor. But while Cambridge Analytica certified in 2015 said that it had destroyed the wayward data, Facebook said, the social network received reports “several days ago” that not all the data was deleted. Cambridge Analytica claims to build psychological profiles based on personal details from millions of Americans that can categorize individual voters. The company has surfaced on several occasions in probes of 2016 Russian election interference.   

[w454] Facebook stock is down 4% after an enormous data breach 				Facebook stock is down 4% after an enormous data breach 				Politicians are on the offensive against Facebook after revelations about Cambridge Analytica. Excessive blinking or pursed lips (REUTERS/Adnan Abidi)  news Facebook&apos;s stock is tanking Monday in premarket trading. News broke over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica, a controversial political research company with links to Donald Trump, had accessed 50 million Facebook user profiles illegitimately. Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform but is under huge political pressure to explain how it can stop third parties from abusing its massive data trove. Facebook&apos;s share price has dropped 4.05% in premarket trading on Monday, most likely thanks to the news that the political-research firm Cambridge Analytica used its site to harvest 50 million user profiles illegitimately. According to Markets Insider , Facebook&apos;s share price stands at $177.60 in premarket trading, down from $185.09 at the market close on Friday. The drop wipes about $21 million off Facebook&apos;s market cap. Lawmakers in the US and the UK are examining Facebook and its role in election interference Facebook is under huge pressure from lawmakers in the US and the UK over the way it handles user data and how that data can be manipulated for targeted political advertising. The Guardian and The New York Times reported on Saturday that Cambridge Analytica had accessed data from 50 million Facebook users during the 2016 US presidential campaign without their permission. It used that information for highly targeted political ads on Facebook. A former Cambridge Analytica employee, Christopher Wylie, blew the whistle, saying: "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people&apos;s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis that the entire company was built on." Cambridge Analytica managed to access the data after teaming up with a University of Cambridge psychology professor, Aleksandr Kogan, and his company Global Science Research in 2014. GSR had developed an app, Thisisyourdigitallife, which examined what people "liked" on Facebook. Cambridge Analytica and GSR paid about 270,000 people to download the app and take a personality test — but the app also siphoned off data about the users&apos; friends. Facebook eventually became aware of the app, and it asked GSR and Cambridge Analytica to delete all the data they held on users. But The New York Times found Cambridge Analytica still held most of the data. Facebook suspended the company from its platform on Friday , prior to the full revelations becoming public but after it had been notified that a story was being published. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida said Facebook acted as though it were above the law . And Damian Collins, the British politician overseeing a select committee investigation into fake news, said on Sunday that Cambridge Analytica had misled members of Parliament over its use of Facebook data. He also said Facebook executives had tried to avoid tough questions over their company&apos;s role in spreading fake news and in election interference. "Alexander Nix denied to the Committee last month that his company had received any data from the Global Science Research company (GSR)," he said. "From the evidence that has been published by The Guardian and The Observer this weekend, it seems clear that he has deliberately mislead the Committee and Parliament by giving false statements." He added: "I will be writing to Mark Zuckerberg asking that either he, or another senior executive from the company, appear to give evidence in front of the Committee as part our inquiry. It is not acceptable that they have previously sent witnesses who seek to avoid asking difficult questions by claiming not to know the answers. This also creates a false reassurance that Facebook&apos;s stated policies are always robust and effectively policed." 

[w455] Snap sinks as Facebook fallout ripples throughout tech 					Snap sinks as Facebook fallout ripples throughout tech (SNAP) Snap shares are down 4%. Investors are concerned about regulatory impacts on internet companies," Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter told Business Insider. Snap (Markets Insider)  news Snap shares are down about 4% Monday as Facebook woes weigh on tech stocks. Over the weekend, news broke over that Cambridge Analytica, a political research company, had accessed 50 million Facebook user profiles illegitimately. "Investors are concerned about regulatory impacts on internet companies," Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter told Business Insider. Snap shares are under pressure Monday as the fallout from Facebook&apos;s woes sends ripples throughout the tech sector. Over the weekend, news broke over that Cambridge Analytica, a political research company, had accessed 50 million Facebook user profiles illegitimately. The information was allegedly used for highly targeted political ads on Facebook, and may have impacted both the 2016 presidential election and Brexit vote. While Snap has struggled with its own questionable content in recent days, it was not related to politics. Last week, the company was forced to pull an ad from its Snapchat app which asked users whether they&apos;d rather "slap Rihanna or punch Chris Brown." That was in reference to assaulted Rihanna in 2009.  

[w456]  Britain's information commissioner is investigating whether Facebook data was "illegally acquired and used," after the social network suspended Cambridge Analytica, a firm that worked for U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. Facebook suspended the company over allegations it retained improperly obtained user data after claiming it had deleted the information. Related Related article :T&T; data mining project allegedly connected to Brexit, Donald Trump Cambridge Analytica also allegedly carried out a data-mining programme in Trinidad and Tobago in 2013 under the government's National Security Ministry, according to a Guardian UK report in May 2017 . The British probe is part of a broader inquiry into how political parties, data companies and social media platforms use personal information to target voters during political campaigns, including Britain's 2016 Brexit referendum on EU membership. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said Saturday it's important "the public are fully aware of how information is used and shared in modern political campaigns and the potential impact on their privacy." She said "any criminal and civil enforcement actions arising from the investigation will be pursued vigorously." 

[w465] Facebook suspends Trump election data firm for policy breach    This article first appeared in The Edge Financial Daily, on . - A + A SAN FRANCISCO: Facebook Inc suspended Cambridge Analytica, a data company that helped President Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election and which might have collected data from 50 million Facebook profiles without their owners’ permission. The social-networking company said in a blog post last Friday that Cambridge Analytica received some user data through an app developer on its social network, violating its policies. In 2015, Facebook said Cambridge Analytica certified that it had destroyed the information. “Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted,” Facebook said in a statement. Cambridge Analytica and parent Strategic Communication Laboratories have been suspended from the social network, “pending further information”, Facebook said. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Saturday it did nothing illegal and is in touch with Facebook in order to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. Originally funded by Robert Mercer, the conservative political donor and former co-chief executive officer of Renaissance Technologies, Cambridge uses data to reach voters with hyper-targeted messaging, including on Facebook and other online services. It was hired to help with voter outreach by the Trump campaign, whose former campaign manager, Steve Bannon, had been on the company’s board.          


[w466] Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg under pressure over data breach  Over the weekend, entreaties for the social-media giant to take responsibility evolved into calls for Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to appear in front of lawmakers. — AFP pic LOS ANGELES, March 19 — Government officials in the US and Europe are demanding answers from Facebook Inc after reports that Cambridge Analytica, the advertising-data firm that helped Donald Trump win the US presidency, retained information on tens of millions of Facebook users without their consent.  Over the weekend, entreaties for the social-media giant to take responsibility evolved into calls for Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to appear in front of lawmakers. Facebook has already testified about how its platform was used by Russian propagandists ahead of the 2016 election, but the company never put Zuckerberg himself in the spotlight with government leaders. The pressure may also foreshadow tougher regulation for the social network. “It’s clear these platforms can’t police themselves,” Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said Saturday on Twitter. “They say ‘trust us.’ Mark Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary.” Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey also separately launched an investigation. The company on Friday said that a professor used Facebook’s log-in tools to get people to sign up for what he claimed was a personality-analysis app he had designed for academic purposes. To take the quiz, 270,000 people gave the app permission to access data via Facebook on themselves and their friends, exposing a network of 50 million people, according to the New York Times . That kind of access was allowed per Facebook’s rules at the time. Afterward, the professor violated Facebook’s terms when he passed along that data to Cambridge Analytica.  Shares in Facebook were down 2.2 per cent during early trading at 5am in New York. Facebook found out about the breach in 2015, shut down the professor’s access and asked Cambridge Analytica to certify that it had deleted the user data. Yet the social network on Friday suspended Cambridge from its system, explaining that it had learned the information wasn’t erased. Cambridge, originally funded by conservative political donor Robert Mercer, on Saturday denied that it still had access to the user data, and said it was working with Facebook on a solution. A researcher who worked with the professor on the app is now currently an employee at Facebook, which is reviewing whether he knew about the data leak. The denials and refutations did little to ease the criticism. Damian Collins, a British lawmaker, said Sunday that Zuckerberg or another senior executive should appear in front of his committee because previous witnesses have avoided difficult questions, creating “a false reassurance that Facebook’s stated policies are always robust and effectively policed.’’ The next few weeks represent a critical time for Facebook to reassure users and regulators about its content standards and platform security, to prevent rules that could impact its main advertising business, according to Daniel Ives, an analyst at GBH Insights. “Changes to their business model around advertising and news feeds/content could be in store over the next 12 to 18 months,” Ives wrote in a note to investors. Facebook, meanwhile, has sought to explain that the mishandling of user data was out of its hands and doesn’t constitute a “breach” – a definition that would require the company to alert users about whether their information was taken, per US Federal Trade Commission rules. Menlo Park, California-based Facebook no longer allows app developers to ask for access to data on users’ friends. But the improper handling of the data raises systemic questions about how much companies can be trusted to protect personal information, said Nuala O’Connor, president and CEO of the Centre for Democracy & Technology. “While the misuse of data is not new, what we now see is how seemingly insignificant information about individuals can be used to decide what information they see and influence viewpoints in profound ways,” O’Connor said in a statement. “Communications technologies have become an essential part of our daily lives, but if we are unable to have control of our data, these technologies control us. For our democracy to thrive, this cannot continue.”


[w467] Facebook slides on report 50 million users had profiles accessed illegitimately   Facebook slides on report 50 million users had profiles accessed illegitimately By Kimberly Chin ,  Facebook ‘s stock dipped early Monday morning. The social media giant has faced intense criticism over news that Cambridge Analytica, a political research company with ties to President Donald Trump, had allegedly illegitimately obtained and used 50 million Facebook user profiles. US and UK lawmakers fear the data was used to sway voters in the last presidential election and Brexit. Watch Facebook’s stock move in real time here. Shares of Facebook fell 4% early Monday morning after news broke over the weekend that a third party was accused of accessing and using the data of more 50 million Facebook user profiles without their permission. The New York Times and Guardian reported Saturday that the controversial political research outfit, Cambridge Analytica, was accessed user information for highly targeted political ads on Facebook. Facebook says it provided the data to a University of Cambridge psychology professor, Aleksandr Kogan, for “academic purposes” but that Kogan gave the data to a third party, Cambridge Analytica. The social-media company says that was a violation of its privacy policy, so it immediately suspended Cambridge Analytica , Kogan, and Cambridge Analytica’s founder, Christopher Wylie, while asking them to delete all of their data. Wylie, who no longer works for Cambridge Analytica, was the whistle-blower who detailed how the firm harvested the data from over 50 million Facebook profiles, as well as their “likes” and their friends. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg UK lawmakers have already questioned Cambridge Analytica executives in court over it’s handling of Facebook’s private user data and its involvement in manipulating voter beliefs in the Brexit elections. Damian Collins, a member of parliament, said he plans to ask Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg or a senior executive to testify before the group. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg The attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey, said she may launch an investigation into this matter. Facebook has been under intense heat for its role in allegedly allowing parties tied to Russia and the Kremlin to launch political ads and disseminate “fake news” on its platform to influence US voters during the last presidential election. Zuckerberg maintained that the idea Facebook had any serious impact on the election was “crazy.” European regulators have been especially concerned over privacy and what happens to Facebook’s trove of user data. Facebook’s stock was trading at $177.74 per share, and was down 2.09% for the year.  


[w468] Facebook (FB): shares dropping here, down around 5%. Shares are under pressure in light of revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm that worked on Trump’s campaign, had inappropriately gained access to the accounts of 50 million Facebook users. Orbotech (ORBK): shares surging in early trade, up over 10%. Chip gear maker KLA-Tencor will buy Orbotech, which manufacturers products to make printed circuit boards and chip devices, for $3.4 billion in cash and stock. Synaptics (SYNA): shares slipping here, down over 1%. The news? Bloomberg is reporting Apple is developing its own screens for future iPhones, a development that could hurt suppliers like touchscreen maker Synaptics.   


[w469] Facebook under pressure as EU, US urge probes of data practices Facebook Inc faced growing pressure on Monday after European and US lawmakers called for investigations into reports that a consultancy that worked on President Donald Trump’s campaign gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users. Facebook suspends 200 apps over... Facebook says data leak hits 87... Facebook profit trounces estimates... Facebook’s shares were down 7 per cent, wiping around $30 billion off its market value and dragging the S&P; 500 technology sector down almost 2 per cent. Facebook shares were on track for their biggest one-day percentage decline since October 2014. “We think this episode is another indication of systemic problems at Facebook,” said Brian Wieser, analyst at New York-based brokerage Pivotal Research Group, which already has a “sell” rating on a stock that rose 60 per cent last year. Wieser argued that regulatory risks for the company would intensify and enhanced use of data in advertising would be at greater risk than before. The scrutiny presents a new threat to Facebook’s reputation, which is already under attack over Russians’ use of Facebook tools to sway American voters with “fake news” posts before and after the 2016 US elections. The New York Times and the British Observer newspaper reported on Saturday that the political analytics firm Cambridge Analytica had harvested private data on more than 50 million Facebook users to support Trump's 2016 presidential election campaign. Facebook said on Friday that it had learned in 2015 that a Cambridge University psychology professor had lied to the company and violated its policies by passing data to Cambridge Analytica from a psychology testing app he had built. Facebook said it suspended the firms and researchers involved. Facebook said the data had been misused but not stolen, because users gave permission. Cambridge Analytica and its CEO were not immediately available to comment on Monday. A spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the allegations were “clearly very concerning . . . . It is essential that people can have confidence that their personal data will be protected and used in an appropriate way.” Britain’s Information Commissioner’s Office said it would be considering the potential new evidence as part its separate civil and criminal probe into whether Facebook user data had been abused in British elections. The head of European Parliament said on Monday that EU lawmakers will investigate whether data misuse had taken place, calling the allegations an unacceptable violation of citizens’ privacy rights. Facebook was already facing new calls on Saturday for regulation from US Congress and questions about personal data safeguards after the reports in the New York Times and London’s Observer over the weekend. On Monday, Republican Senator John Kennedy joined his Democratic colleague Amy Klobuchar in calling on Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg to testify before Congress about data use. In a joint letter, Kennedy and Klobuchar asked Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley to hold a hearing with Zuckerberg and the chief executives of Alphabet Inc’s Google and Twitter Inc, reflecting mounting bipartisan concern in Washington about how the companies share personal user data.

[w470]   Facebook just hired Stroz Friedberg, the same outside investigator Uber called on during its biggest controversy   Facebook just hired Stroz Friedberg, the same outside investigator Uber called on during its biggest controversy By Julie Bort Cambridge Analytica obtained data on millions of users to influence the 2016 election and Brexit vote, according to a whistleblower. Facebook asked Cambridge Analytica to delete that data back in 2016, but never verified that it did. In the wake of an uproar, Facebook just promised to find out if CA still has the data. It hired Stroz Friedberg, the same investigator once used by Uber. Facebook released a statement on Monday saying that it hired Stroz Friedberg, a digital forensics firm, to determine whether Cambridge Analytica, the analytics company it banned from its platform on Friday, still possesses any Facebook user data. The data was taken from 50 million Facebook users back in 2014 through a sneaky method: a quiz app called “thisisyourdigitallife,” which was billed as a personality quiz, but which actually gathered data on people who used the app and their Facebook friends. The data was then used to send targeted political ads to people in 2016 US election and the Brexit vote, The Observer reports. The man who built that app, Aleksandr Kogan, has ties to Cambridge University, as well as the Russian government. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg In 2015, Facebook became aware that the app was violating Facebook’s terms, and in 2016, sent a letter to the people and companies involved demanding that they delete the user data, The New York Times reports. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg Those associated with Cambridge Analytica promised to delete the data, but Facebook never followed up to verify they kept that promise. It didn’t even ban Cambridge Analytica from its platform until Friday, just before news reports were about to publish on the situation. Such an investigation is, for all practical purposes, too little and too late. The New York Times said it has seen copies of the data that still exist out in the wild. And there are other things to note about Facebook’s statement. For instance, it says it’s hiring Stroz Friedberg as the investigator. This was the same investigator Uber hired to determine if former Google’s self-driving car engineer Anthony Levandowski had taken any intellectual property with him when he left the company. To refresh your memory, Stroz discovered that Levandowski did possess thousands of those files, which was revealed because Waymo, Google’s self-driving spin-off company, sued Uber. And we can’t help point out this part of Facebook’s statement, too: “This is data Cambridge Analytica, SCL, Mr. Wylie, and Mr. Kogan certified to Facebook had been destroyed. If this data still exists, i t would be a grave violation of Facebook’s policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made.” Facebook seems to be shocked that people who had disreputably gathered its user data in the first place couldn’t be trusted to simply delete the data when Facebook asked them to do so. The rest of the world isn’t so convinced that Facebook should be let off the hook. The hashtag #deletefacebook has been trending on Twitter. The European Union has launched an investigation into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. So has the attorney general of Massachusetts . And Ron Wyden, a senator on the committee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 US election, has sent a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg demanding answers as well. 

[w471] 

[w472]   


[w473] A new threat to Facebook’s reputation | IOL Business Report  


[w474]

[w475]  European Union to investigate alleged Facebook data breach European Union to investigate alleged Facebook data breach By Agencies -  Lawmakers for the European Union have announced an investigation after allegations user data of 50 million Facebook accounts were misused. The investigation comes after Christopher Wylie, a whistle-blower who worked for data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, said on Saturday data of the 50 million users were harvested without their knowledge or consent. Antonio Tajani, president of the European Parliament, said on Twitter the allegations, if true, constitute “an unacceptable violation of our citizens’ privacy rights”. “The European Parliament will investigate fully, calling digital platforms to account,” he said. The UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office, which concerns itself with privacy and data protection, reiterated on Monday it is also investigating the issue. “A full understanding of the facts, data flows and data uses is imperative for my ongoing investigation. This includes any new information, statements or evidence that have come to light in recent days,” Elizabeth Denham, information commissioner, said. “This is a complex and far reaching investigation for my office and any criminal or civil enforcement actions arising from it will be pursued vigorously.” On Friday, the New York Times and London Observer broke a story about how Cambridge Analytica paid for illegally obtained personal information of 50 million Facebook users. The company, which worked on Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and the pro-Brexit campaign as a consultant, then used that information to build a software program which could target potential swing voters, the newspapers found. Cambridge Analytica allegedly got the data of the 50 million people from Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American researcher. He built an app called ‘thisisyourdigitallife’ that collected data for “academic research”. However, the app not only collected personal information of the people who downloaded the app and consented to having their data used, but also of unknowing friends, according to the newspapers’ investigation. Cambridge Analytica, who paid Kogan’s company and to build the app, was then able to create highly detailed profiles of 50 million people. That data was subsequently used for several political campaigns, among them Trump’s and Ted Cruz’s presidential runs, as well as the Brexit campaign in the UK. According to the Facebook terms of services, the sale of information to third parties is not allowed. As a result of the news, Facebook shares have plummeted. The company said in a response all parties involved, including the whistle-blower Wylie, had been suspended fpending an internal investigation. Facebook, whose headquarters are based in Ireland, added on Saturday the data gathered were not the result of a breach, but that people knowingly provided their information and no sensitive pieces of information were stolen. Cambridge Analytica has claimed in a statement that it did not use the gathered data for its work with the Trump presidential campaign and that has followed Facebook’s terms of services. Funding for Cambridge Analytica came from former White House adviser Steve Bannon and hedge-fund financiers Robert and Rebekah Mercer, who supported the Trump campaign. 

[w476] Cambridge Analytica ‘Strongly Denies’ Data Misuse Allegations Channels Television Updated March 19, 2018 In this file photo taken on February 27, 2018 a video grab from footage broadcast by the UK Parliament’s Parliamentary Recording Unit (PRU) on February 27, 2018 shows Chief Executive, Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, giving evidence to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee of members of parliament on the subject of fake news at the Houses of Parliament in London on February 27, 2018.  HO / PRU / AFP   Cambridge Analytica, a British communications firm hired by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, said Monday that it “strongly denies” allegations it inappropriately harvested data on 50 million Facebook users as part of that work. “This Facebook data was not used by Cambridge Analytica as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump presidential campaign; personality targeted advertising was not carried out for this client either,” it said in a statement. The accusations by several British and US media outlets prompted Facebook’s shares to plunge on Monday, after the company suspended the account of Cambridge Analytica and officials on both sides of the Atlantic called for investigations. Britain’s Information Commissioner’s Office, which regulates the sector, announced on Monday that it would be going to court on Tuesday to seek a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica’s computer servers after it had been uncooperative. According to a joint probe by The New York Times and Britain’s Observer, Cambridge Analytica was able to create psychological profiles on 50 million Facebook users through the use of a personality prediction app that was downloaded by 270,000 people, but also scooped up data from friends. Facebook has pushed back against the claim of a major breach, suggesting misused data was limited to a far smaller group of users. Meanwhile, fresh allegations against senior executives at Cambridge Analytica emerged on Monday. The company’s chief executive Alexander Nix was secretly filmed by Britain’s Channel 4 News saying it could entrap politicians in compromising situations with bribes and sex workers, using ex-spies to dig up dirt on opponents. He also said the firm secretly campaigns in elections around the world, including by operating through a web of shadowy front companies, or by using sub-contractors. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told the news programme it does not use “untrue material for any purpose”. “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever,” the spokesman added.


[w477] 

[w479] 

[w480]  Cambridge Analytica Behaved Appallingly. Don’t Overreact. The horrendous actions by Cambridge Analytica, a voter profiling company, and Aleksander Kogan, a Russian-American researcher , raise serious questions about privacy, social media, democracy and fraud. Amidst the justified furor, one temptation should be firmly resisted: for public and private institutions to lock their data down, blocking researchers and developers from providing the many benefits that it promises – for health, safety, and democracy itself. The precise facts remain disputed, but according to reports, here’s what happened. Kogan worked as a lecturer at Cambridge University, which has a Psychometrics Centre. The Centre purports to be able to use data from Facebook (including "likes'') to ascertain people’s personality traits. Cambridge Analytica and one of its founders, Christopher Wylie, attempted to work with the Centre for purposes of vote profiling. It refused, but Kogan accepted the offer. Without disclosing his relationship to Cambridge Analytica, Kogan entered into an agreement with Facebook, which agreed to provide data to him - solely for his own research purposes. Kogan created an app, called "thisisyourdigitallife.'' Offering a personality prediction, the app described itself on Facebook as "a research app used by psychologists.'' About 270,000 Facebook users agreed to disclose their data (again, for research purposes). By sharing data with Cambridge Analytica, Kogan violated his agreement with Facebook. According to one report, he ended up providing more than 50 million user profiles to Cambridge Analytica, not for academic research, but to build profiles for partisan political uses . Armed with those profiles, Cambridge Analytica worked with members of the Ted Cruz and Donald Trump campaigns in 2016. Among other things, the firm helped to model voter turnout, identify audiences for fund-raising appeals and advertisements, and specify the best places for Trump to travel to increase support. As early as 2015, Facebook learned that Kogan was sharing his data, and it demanded that Kogan, Cambridge Analytica, and Wylie cease using, and destroy, all the information they had obtained. They certified that they had done so. That was a lie – which recently led Facebook to suspend all three from its platform. Facebook was careful to add, "People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.'' All this raises numerous questions – some of which involve difficult tradeoffs with respect to privacy and competing values. Aware of the risks, Facebook emphasizes that all apps requesting detailed user information have to "go through our App Review process, which requires developers to justify the data they’re looking to collect and how they’re going to use it – before they’re allowed to even ask people for it." In view of Kogan’s misconduct, it’s reasonable to ask whether that process contains sufficient safeguards. An external review panel might well be a good addition; continuing monitoring of all uses of Facebook data, on the part of app developers, seems important. But let’s not overreact. Authorized use of that data can do a great deal of good. For example, Genes for Good, from the University of Michigan, is now using a Facebook App to help combat diabetes, cancer, and heart disease. It is seeking to learn how genes interact with the environment to produce – or not to produce – serious illness. There’s tremendous potential there. A more immediate response to health problems is HealthTap, an app that permits users to type questions into Facebook’s Messenger and to obtain free responses from doctors – or to see answers from doctors to questions that are like their own. Stanford’s Raj Chetty, one of the world’s leading experts on inequality, is working with Facebook data to learn more about economic opportunity and in particular to understand the sources of intergenerational mobility. Chetty has an extraordinary track record and there’s every reason to think that we will learn a great deal from his work. With respect to politics , the Pew Research Center has used Facebook data to see how often, and exactly when, members of Congress directly express disagreement with the other party. Pew found that disagreement comes most often from party leaders – and that it is far more common from Republicans than from Democrats. Sure, those aren’t the most surprising findings, but there is far more to learn about polarization and partisanship – and Facebook’s data will prove exceedingly valuable. It is true, of course, that social media users should have a great deal of control over whether and how their information is used, and that app developers should be sharply constrained in their ability to share data. The U.S. government has faced, and solved, similar problems: Data.gov discloses a great deal of information, with more than 230,000 data sets involving health, safety, travel, energy, and the environment. Available apps, made possible by that information, are helping people to save money and to avoid health risks . For social media providers, including Facebook, the Cambridge Analytica fiasco underlines the need for more careful vetting of all developers who seek access to their data. But it would be a mistake to take the fiasco as a reason to keep treasure troves of information out of the hands of people who can provide immensely valuable services with it. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Cass R. Sunstein is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the editor of "Can It Happen Here? Authoritarianism in America" and a co-author of “Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth and Happiness.” Disclosure: In the last year, I have occasionally served as a consultant to Facebook, but not on any issue related in any way to the topic here.   


[w481]  After FB data breach, Cambridge Analytica accused of using bribes, sex workers to entrap politicians Britain's Channel 4 News said it mounted a “sting operation” in which it said had secretly recorded top Cambridge Analytica executives saying they could use bribes, former spies and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians around the world. Cambridge Analytica, the UK political consultancy at the centre of Facebook ’s election manipulation scandal, ran the campaigns of President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2013 and 2017 Kenyan elections, according to video secretly recorded and broadcast by Britain’s Channel 4 News on Monday. The company denied all allegations made by Channel 4 News regarding its business practices. The news channel said it mounted a “sting operation” in which it said had secretly recorded top Cambridge Analytica executives saying they could use bribes, former spies and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians around the world. The New York Times and the British Observer newspaper reported on Saturday that Cambridge Analytica had acquired private data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to support Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential election campaign. Explained |  How huge Facebook data trove was used in Donald Trump US election campaign Mark Turnbull, a managing director for Cambridge Analytica and sister company SCL Elections, told Channel 4’s undercover investigative reporting team that his firm secretly stage-managed Kenyatta’s hotly contested campaigns to run the East African nation. “We have rebranded the entire party twice, written the manifesto, done research, analysis, messaging. I think we wrote all the speeches and we staged the whole thing – so just about every element of this candidate,” Turnbull said of his firm’s work for Kenyatta’s political party, known as the National Alliance until 2016, and subsequently as the Jubilee Party. Kenyatta came to power in 2013 and won a second and final term last August, defeating opposition leader Raila Odinga by 1.4 million votes. The Supreme Court nullified the vote citing procedural irregularities and ordered a second election. Last September, former U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton called the second election a “project” of Cambridge Analytica. The Jubilee Party has not commented. Odinga did not contest the repeat vote on Oct. 26, saying it would be unfair because the election commission had failed to implement reforms and Kenyatta won with 98 percent of the vote.  At a prior meeting, Turnbull told the reporters: “Our job is to really drop the bucket further down the well than anybody else to understand what are these really deep-seated fears, concerns. “It is no good fighting an election campaign on the facts, because actually it is all about emotion.” Cambridge Analytica officials were recorded saying they have used a web of shell companies to disguise their activities in elections in Mexico, Malaysia and Brazil, among various countries where they have worked to sway election outcomes. Chief Executive Alexander Nix is recorded boasting: “We are not only the largest and most significant political consultancy in the world but we have the most established track record. We need to operate through different vehicles, in the shadows.” “I look forward to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you,” he tells the reporters. Cambridge Analytica denied all allegations made by Channel 4 News regarding its business practices. The company said in statement it was humouring the undercover reporters and trying to gauge their motives by actively encouraging them, “to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions”. Channel 4 noted that their last meeting with Cambridge Analytica had taken place in January at a London hotel and that company employees had continued to email them seeking to strike a deal to work on a Sri Lankan campaign up until recently. Cambridge Analytica acknowledged in a statement that, its CEO had “misjudged the situation”. Nix said: “I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honeytraps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose.” 

[w482]  

[w483]  Here's the personality test Cambridge Analytica had millions of Facebook users take Reports published this weekend from The New York Times and The Observer revealed that personality-profiling company Cambridge Analytica harvested data from millions of users and potentially used it in the most recent US presidential election. The personality test that the company used gives users a score called their "OCEAN" score, referring to how it calculates their performance on a measure of Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. The test is available for free online at the University of Cambridge Psychometrics Center and forms the basis of many existing psychological studies on happiness and longevity. A personality-profiling company called Cambridge Analytica harvested personal data from millions of users and may have used that data to sway voters during the 2016 US presidential election, according to reports published this weekend from The New York Times and The Observer. The company, which received $15 million from wealthy Republican donor Robert Mercer and was once run by Steve Bannon, was tasked by Bannon with identifying the personalities of US voters and potentially influencing how they behaved. At the core of Cambridge Analytica's work is a simple personality test designed by Cambridge scientists that is available for free online and forms the basis of many existing psychological studies on happiness and longevity. The test gives users a score called their "OCEAN" score, referring to how it calculates their performance on a measure of Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. You can take the test online now simply by clicking "proceed." 

[w484] 

[w485]  Facebook Says Cambridge Analytica Audit on Hold Amid U.K.A digital forensic firm enlisted by Facebook Inc. to investigate Cambridge Analytica has put its audit on hold, pending a separate probe by the U.K. government. Facebook had said earlier that it enlisted the firm Stroz Friedberg to assess advertising-data provider Cambridge Analytica, whose handling of Facebook user data has embroiled the social networking company in controversy. “At the request of the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down,” Facebook said Monday. At issue is information on millions of Facebook users that Cambridge Analytica obtained from a researcher who shared the data without Facebook’s permission. According to published news reports, Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan created a personality-analysis app that was used by 270,000 Facebook users, who in turn gave the app permission to access data on themselves and their friends, ultimately exposing a network of 50 million. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica had agreed to be audited by Stroz Friedberg to determine whether the data company still has the information, which it said has been deleted. The data company, which worked for U.S. President Donald Trump during the 2016 campaign, was required to destroy the information in 2015 when Facebook learned it had the data, but reportedly failed to do so. Cambridge Analytica has denied wrongdoing. “If this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook’s policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made,” Facebook said. “We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims.” Digital forensics firm Stroz Friedberg will conduct a “comprehensive audit,” and Cambridge Analytica will provide “complete access to their servers and systems,” Facebook wrote before the audit was put on hold.   

[w486] The CEO of Cambridge Analytica was secretly filmed offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers The CEO of Cambridge Analytica was secretly filmed offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers Jake Kanter Channel 4 News secretly filmed Cambridge Analytica (CA) CEO Alexander Nix offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers. The bombshell investigation also shows CA admitting to discreetly seeding compromising videos of politicians on the internet and helping them go viral. CA entirely refutes any allegation that it uses entrapment tactics. It comes just days after the company was suspended by Facebook over a huge data scandal. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica (CA), the Donald Trump-linked political research company at the centre of a massive Facebook data scandal , has been secretly filmed offering shadowy services to entrap politicians. The bombshell footage was broadcast on Monday as part of an investigation by Channel 4 News and comes just days after CA was suspended from Facebook over a data incident involving 50 million US voters. CA Chief Executive Alexander Nix and his colleagues were filmed by an undercover reporter over the course of four meetings between November 2017 and January this year. The Channel 4 News journalist posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. In one exchange with Nix filmed in January, the CEO said CA could send a fake "wealthy developer" to Sri Lanka to offer incumbent politicians a "large amount of money" in a "deal that's too good to be true," such as buying a plot of land. "We'll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we'll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet," Nix said on camera, adding: "These sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption." Business Insider approached CA for comment. The company told Channel 4 News that it entirely refutes any allegations that it entrapped politicians. Offering bribes to public officials is an offence under both the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. CA operates in the UK and is registered in the US. At the same meeting at London's five-star Berkeley Hotel, Nix said CA could "send some girls around to the candidate's house, we have lots of history of things." He added: "It was just an idea, I'm just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know, you know what I'm saying." Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, described the process by which the company goes through to discreetly seed compromising videos on the internet and help them go viral. At a meeting in December, he told Channel 4's reporter: "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control." He also said: "It has to happen without anyone thinking, 'that's propaganda,' because the moment you think 'that's propaganda,' the next question is: 'Who's put that out?'" Channel 4 News' investigation also delves into how CA allegedly used "shadowy front companies" or sub-contractors to achieve its aims. You can watch excerpts from the secret filming below. Business Insider contacted CA more than two hours before the Channel 4 investigation was broadcast. A spokesman said it was "hard to reply to something we haven't seen." But Business Insider understands Channel 4 sent CA a 20-page document detailing the allegations and the contents of the undercover filming a week ago. A CA spokesman told Channel 4 News: "We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called 'honey-traps' for any purpose whatsoever." He added: "Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose." The revelations follow former CA employee Christopher Wylie blowing the whistle on how the company harvested the Facebook data of 50 million US voters and used it to power software that helped target voters with personalised political advertising. Channel 4 News will broadcast further allegations about CA's work for Donald Trump's presidential campaign later this week. 

[w487]  House Russia Probe To Close Despite Revelations About Data Firm - The Republican leading the House investigation into Russian election meddling said revelations that a data firm working with Donald Trump’s presidential campaign may have improperly harvested data on millions of Facebook users doesn’t change his plans to shut down the probe this week. “I have no intention of bringing in any other witnesses to the Russia investigation," Representative Michael Conaway said Monday.   Conaway, a Texas Republican, called reports that Cambridge Analytica may have exploited Facebook and obtained millions of people’s profiles without authorization “concerning,” but he said the Intelligence Committee would wrap up its Russia inquiry on Thursday with a vote on whether to approve a majority-written report of it conclusions. If approved, the report would then undergo vetting to redact classified information by intelligence agencies before a formal public release, possibly within days. Conaway and other Republicans have already announced they have found no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in the election meddling. Conaway’s comments came as the top Democrat on the committee, Representative Adam Schiff, has called for Cambridge Analytica to be investigated. He says that Facebook also must answer questions. Schiff also has threatened to subpoena Alexander Nix, chief executive of U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica, to testify again before the panel. He said the reports call into question the veracity of some of Nix’s closed door testimony to the committee in December. He also wants the panel to get testimony from a Cambridge Analytica whistleblower, Christopher Wylie Some Democrats also are calling for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify before the Senate judiciary committee about what the social media company knew about the misuse of its data. Cambridge Analytica and parent Strategic Communication Laboratories have been suspended from Facebook, "pending further information," the Menlo Park, California-based company said in a blog post Friday. Cambridge Analytica said in a Saturday statement it did nothing illegal and was ​in touch with Facebook in order to resolve the matter as quickly as possible.


[w488]  Cambridge Analytica CEO Offered To Ensnare PoliticiansThe U.K.’s Channel 4 News aired secretly recorded footage purporting to show Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix discussing how political opponents could be discredited.  According to the report, he suggested sending “some girls around” to a political opponent’s house, adding that Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” Cambridge Analytica in a statement "strongly denied the claims." In an interview with the BBC’s Newsnight Nix said: “A lot of the allegations that have been put to Cambridge are entirely unfounded and extremely unfair.” U.K. politicians also piled on the pressure on Facebook Inc. The social network must end its days of “move fast and break things,” U.K. Culture Secretary Matt Hancock told lawmakers in the wake of reports that a political advertising firm kept information on millions of the social network’s users without their consent. In a series of angry comments to parliament about Facebook and its relationship with Cambridge Analytica, a data-analysis firm, Hancock said the company was going to have to improve its behavior. Hancock said that the “Wild West” days of “digital companies who flout rules and think that the best thing to do is to move fast and break things without respect for the impact that has on democracy and on society” were over. To cheers of support from across the chamber, Hancock also attacked the company for blocking whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its site. “I thought it was outrageous,” the Culture Secretary said. “We know in this house they don’t act fast enough to block other accounts of obviously outrageous behavior. It shows us that when they need to, they can block incredibly quickly."  


[w489] Lesson from Facebook data use for Trump campaign: Our data protection laws are not strong enough On March 17, news broke that Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that worked with Donald Trump’s election campaign, had harvested over 50 million users’ Facebook data without permission. The firm combined a range of users’ data, including “non-sensitive” information such as status updates and Facebook likes, with other sources of information (such as electoral rolls) to build psychographic profiles and target people based on their preferences and susceptibilities. As Christopher Wylie, a former data scientist at Cambridge Analytica and the whistle-blower behind the revelations, explained , the firm combined “micro-targeting” with constructs from psychology so that “we would not only be targeting you as a voter, we would be targeting you as a personality”. These revelations raise significant questions about how data-mining techniques impact society, especially given their use during campaigns in the 2016 United States presidential elections and the United Kingdom’s Brexit referendum. They also highlight foundational questions around the regulation of data in the age of big data – an issue that we are in the midst of a national conversation about in India. In particular, we are confronting a reality where information about us from various sources is increasingly linked and easily shareable, serving to reveal aspects of ourselves that we may not intend to disclose. As these data-mining techniques become reality, do we need to change how we think about what is sensitive data and what isn’t? Inadequate regulation The current regulatory approach to protecting personal data in India (under the Information Technology Act, 2000) follows a “list-based” approach. It identifies six types of “sensitive personal data”: (1) passwords, (2) financial information (such as bank account and payment instrument details), (3) health condition, (4) sexual orientation, (5) medical records and history, and (6) biometric information. This list is set out in rules passed under the Information Technology Act. The rules require entities handling such data to have “reasonable security practices and procedures” in place before collecting the information. Parties are free to agree on their own rules relating to such data, including any security standards or privacy policy. Entities must also take prior written consent from a person whose sensitive personal data they are collecting, and use it only for a specified purpose. In practice, however, prior written consent can be quite meaningless – as anyone who has mindlessly clicked on an “I Agree” button while signing up to lengthy terms and conditions will testify to. Users often have neither the choice nor the bandwidth to do anything other than sign away their consent for their information to be used for purposes often unclear at the time of entering into the contract. In any case, this old list-based approach appears to be totally incongruous with the world today, where we confront data mining techniques like the one used by Cambridge Analytica. No doubt, in this case, there are also questions around the impropriety of collecting the data of Facebook users without their knowledge and using it to deploy covert advertising techniques for messages that are in effect election canvassing. But it also showcases that lines are blurring when it comes to trying to identify the types of information that are sensitive enough to expose a person to a vulnerability. Several service providers around the world and across sectors are using similar data analytics to understand their users better. More and more providers actively aspire to a “ single customer view ” that provides a deep profile of all the data they hold on a particular individual. Our “digital breadcrumbs” – Facebook likes, browsing histories – would not typically be considered sensitive information in our current legal understanding. However, new data analysis techniques allow sensitive details such as religious beliefs, sexual orientation, ethnic or caste information to be revealed from other proxies or based on patterns gleaned from non-sensitive data of individuals without their knowledge or consent. Most of the data points used in such techniques would not be considered “sensitive personal data” under the current law or under the provisional view of an expert committee expressed in a white paper on a future data protection regime for India. The Information Technology Act identifies six types of personal data as sensitive – passwords, financial information, health condition, sexual orientation, medical records and history, and biometrics. (Credit: Reuters) New model for data protection regulation The time has come to reconsider our dogma around personal data regulation. The objective of the data protection law is to protect individuals themselves, not merely a subset of their personal data. To uphold this core objective, we can and should ensure that protection is offered to all personal information by which an individual is identified or through which they are identifiable. Doing so would focus regulation more appropriately on use of personal information in the context of the provision of a service, rather than blindly forcing organisations to “ring fence” certain types of data. The use of your medical records, for instance, would be necessary and proportionate to the service your hospital provides you, but not the use by a third-party recruitment firm discussing your employment with a potential employer. It is important to test the legitimacy of the use of any personal information in the context of its use. It is both possible and important to do so, as the model fleshed out in our response to public consultation on the white paper for data protection explains. We have proposed that a future law provide protection to all personally identifiable information. Whether such personal data can be used in a given situation will then hinge on a “legitimate purpose” test we have proposed – which will allow entities to use personal data where to do so is lawful, necessary and proportionate without overriding the individuals’ interest ( see page 42 of our full response ). This test is not the European Union’s legitimate interest standard but one we believe can go beyond it to fix some of its shortcomings. Finally, these principles should be backed by an enforcement framework based on responsive regulation. This would make these protections more meaningful, unlike the current state of affairs. Such an approach has the benefit of allowing the use of new types of data created by individuals for clearly identified legitimate purposes ex ante, and it will also incentivise the use of de-identification techniques like anonymisation that allow entities to retain personal data without infringing privacy or data protection rights. We must explore new ways to think about these emerging issues as we change how we interpret our increasingly digital lives. India has a unique opportunity to learn from others’ mistakes, especially as episodes like the Cambridge Analytica case and our own stories of data breaches come to light. We must use these lessons in our industry’s data practices and our national laws in the months and years ahead. Malavika Raghavan works on emerging issues for regulation around consumer protection and finance. She is currently project head, Future of Finance Initiative at Dvara Reasearch.     


[w490] Cambridge Analytica: Firm Courted By BJP, Congress (and Trump) In Trouble Over Data Breach Cambridge Analytica: Firm Courted By BJP, Congress (and Trump) In Trouble Over Data Breach Most of us in India know of Cambridge Analytica as the big data analytics firm that is reportedly being courted by both the BJP and the Congress in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The world over, the firm is famous -- or rather infamous -- for its role in Donald Trump’s ascension to the White House and its links to the Brexit Leave campaign in the United Kingdom. What the firm essentially does is use big data to help clients track preferences and thereby formulate strategies. Sounds simple enough till your begin to realise just exactly what this data is comprised of. A whistleblower recently revealed that Cambridge Analytica harvested millions of Facebook profiles of US voters and used the data to build a powerful software program to predict and influence voting choices. The firm built the system in early 2014, profiling individual voters and then using the information to target them with personalised political advertisements. The programme affected 50 million people, who never knew that their data had been taken. The data was used to construct complex psychological profiles of voters, who were then targeted with political ads that were designed to subtly motivate them to vote a particular way. Christopher Wylie, who worked with a Cambridge University academic to obtain the data, told the Observer: “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on.” It turns out that Facebook knew that this was going on. Documents show that by 2015 Facebook was well aware that information had been harvested on an unprecedented scale. Yet, it failed to alert users or take steps to recover and secure the information. Cambridge Analytica was headed at the time by Trump’s key adviser Steve Bannon. Data was collected through an app built by academic Aleksandr Kogan’s company Global Science Research (GSR). In collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, hundreds of thousands of users were paid to take a personality test and agreed to have their data collected for academic use. The app then collected the data of test taker’s pool of Facebook friends, going on to build a massive database. The story that Cambridge Analytica collected private information and used it to influence voting behaviour at the US elections comes as both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are one focus of an inquiry into data and politics by the British Information Commissioner’s Office. Separately, the Electoral Commission is also investigating what role Cambridge Analytica played in the EU referendum. Facebook has sought damage control by announcing that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica from the platform, but the fact that this suspension comes a few years after Facebook knew of the firm’s activities in harvesting data does little to mitigate its reputation. At the end of the day, questions remain about Facebook’s role in influencing electoral results. Interestingly, Cambridge Analytica and the tools it uses seem to be in hot demand in South Asia. The BJP and Congress have both reportedly considered the firm, as has former Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa and Bangladesh’s Awami League. The firm seems to have worked with Indian political parties. On its website, it says: “CA was contracted to undertake an in-depth electorate analysis for the Bihar Assembly Election in 2010. The core challenge was to identify the floating/swing voters for each of the parties and to measure their levels electoral apathy, a result of the poor and unchanging condition of the state after 15 years of incumbent rule. In addition to the research phase, CA were tasked to organise the party base at the village level by creating a communication hierarchy to increase supporter motivation. Our client achieved a landslide victory, with over 90% of total seats targeted by CA being won.” In September 2017, reports emerged that the Indian National Congress was in talks with Cambridge Analytica. “The proposal includes building a “national data infrastructure project” for coordinating team planning, strategy and targeted messaging. It also involves identifying the gaps in data that exists in different databases, and making relevant connections using internal and external sources and data analytics to give meaningful insights,” revealed sources at the time. Big data emerged as a key component of elections in India following the 2014 general elections, which saw the BJP and Narendra Modi emerge victorious. Since then, other parties have followed suit, including the Aam Aadmi Party that relied heavily on big data for the foray into Punjab, and the Congress - Samajwadi alliance that made use of big data in the Uttar Pradesh elections. The increasing use of big data also raises questions regarding right to privacy, and the use of fake news to manipulate voters. Reports have shown fake news being spread deliberately by political parties to build narratives that may influence voting behaviour, with big data now making it even easier to target people. Despite these concerns, firms like Cambridge Analytica and the tools of big data analytics remain in hot demand in politics today … misleading information, fake news and manipulation now central to political discourse and behaviour.


[w491]

[w492]  Facebook rocked by data breach scandal as investigations loom - The Express Tribune  


[w494]Facebook under pressure as U.S., EU urge probes of data practices    - A + A (March 20): Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg faced calls on Monday from U.S. and European lawmakers to explain how a consultancy that worked on President Donald Trump's election campaign gained improper access to data on 50 million Facebook users. Facebook's shares closed down nearly 7 percent, wiping nearly $40 billion off its market value as investors worried that new legislation could damage the company's advertising business. "The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook's data practices, and the picture is not pretty," said Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who has written about Silicon Valley's use of data. Lawmakers in the United States, Britain and Europe have called for investigations into media reports that political analytics firm Cambridge Analytica harvested the private data on more than 50 million Facebook users to develop techniques to support Trump's 2016 presidential election campaign. ( http://reut.rs/2pn8btD ) The scrutiny presents a fresh threat to Facebook's reputation, which is already under attack over Russia's alleged use of Facebook tools to sway U.S. voters with divisive and false news posts before and after the 2016 election. Facebook said on Monday it had hired digital forensics firm Stroz Friedberg to carry out a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica, which had agreed to comply and give the forensics firm complete access to their servers and systems. Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denies the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. But further allegations about the firm's tactics piled up on Monday, as Channel 4 News, a British broadcaster, published video of Cambridge Analytica executives talking about using bribes, former spies and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians. Facebook was already facing calls on Saturday for regulation from U.S. Congress and questions about personal data safeguards after reports in the New York Times and London's Observer over the weekend. On Monday, Republican Senator John Kennedy called on Zuckerberg to testify before Congress, and Democratic Senator Ron Wyden sent a letter to Zuckerberg asking about company policies for sharing user data with third parties. Facebook usually sends lawyers to testify to Congress, or allows trade organizations to represent it and other technology companies in front of lawmakers. Facebook and rivals including Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc's YouTube have taken voluntary steps to restrict possible foreign interference and combat false news, but they have not been forced by law or regulation to make changes and legislation on the issue has stalled. It was not clear whether Republicans who hold congressional committee gavels would announce hearings related to Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. But the lawmaker comments reflected mounting bipartisan concern in Washington over whether internet firms are fair trustees of the massive amounts of user data they collect. Some technology lobbyists have begun to quietly acknowledge the era of a hands-off approach to Silicon Valley from U.S. policymakers may be fading. On Monday, the Senate was expected to move forward with a bill that would chip away at the internet industry’s legal shield, a decades-old law known as Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, with a bill intended to address online sex trafficking. The measure has already passed the House and is expected to soon become law. Facebook said on Friday it had learned in 2015 that a Cambridge University psychology professor lied to the company and violated its policies by passing data to Cambridge Analytica from a psychology testing app he had built. Facebook said it suspended the firms and researchers involved. It also said the data had been misused but not stolen, because users gave permission. Facebook shares fell 6.8 percent to $172.56, dragging the S&P; 500 technology sector down 2.1 percent and broadly weighing on U.S. equities. Fears of increased regulation also weighed on shares of Twitter, Google parent Alphabet and Snapchat parent Snap Inc . "(Tech companies) are going to get a lot more scrutiny over what data they are collecting and how they are using it," said Shawn Cruz, senior trading specialist at TD Ameritrade in Chicago. 'VERY CONCERNING' European officials, who have been more willing to regulate Silicon Valley companies than their U.S. counterparts, were especially strident in criticism of Facebook. The revelations about Cambridge Analytica were "horrifying, if confirmed," said EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova. "We don't want this in the EU and will take all possible legal measures" including stricter rules under the bloc's General Data Protection Regulation that takes effect in May, she said. A spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the allegations were "clearly very concerning." Britain's Information Commissioner's Office said it would consider the potential new evidence as part of its separate civil and criminal probe into whether Facebook user data had been abused in British elections. The head of the European Parliament said EU lawmakers will investigate possible data misuse, calling the allegations an unacceptable violation of citizens' privacy rights.


[w496]

[w497] Zuckerberg should ask one of his board members — Netflix's Reed Hastings — how to write an apology Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg hasn't yet found the words needed to calm the market after the disastrous Cambridge Analytica story that broke Friday continues to pick up steam. Facebook shares plunged 6.8 percent on Monday and another 1.5 percent in extended trading. This comes after a weekend when the company and independent news reports said that a psychology quiz app collected data about 50 million Facebook users under false pretenses, then shared that data with the political analytics firm without user permission. Facebook execs took to Twitter in the wake of the reports to deny that this was a security breach , and Cambridge has said that it deleted that data , contrary to the news reports. Meanwhile, Zuckerberg, who created the social network 14 years ago from his Harvard dorm room, has stayed quiet. If Zuckerberg really wanted help in crafting a soothing apology, he could just look across the boardroom table. There he'd find Netflix CEO Reed Hastings , who seven years ago made a mistake so catastrophic that it almost sank the company he started in 1997. In 2011, Netflix raised prices and announced it was splitting its DVD business into a separate company. Then Hastings apologized in a letter that began: "I messed up. I owe everyone an explanation." That alone wasn't enough to spark a rally, as Netflix continued to reckon with a deteriorating subscriber outlook. In fact, the stock sank more than 50 percent from there before bottoming about a year later. Along the way Hastings had to kill a hastily unveiled plan to rename the DVD business "Qwikster." But since mid-2012, Netflix has represented one of the best investments of the decade, multiplying 40-fold on the way to a $136 billion market capitalization. Once roundly criticized for abruptly deciding to separate the DVD and streaming units, Hastings is now lauded for his foresight in recognizing that the physical distribution business was headed for the dustbin. Zuckerberg is in a different kind of crisis. His company had already been embarrassed by revelations that Russian-backed groups infiltrated the site and distributed propaganda that was seen by about 126 million Americans ahead of the 2016 presidential election . It had already been called to testify multiple times in front of Congress about its role in the spread of fake news. Now there's the suspension of Cambridge Analytica , which worked on behalf of Donald Trump's campaign, for allegedly misusing data of 50 million people to target them with political ads based on personal information. Asking forgiveness It's not as if Zuckerberg doesn't know how to apologize. On the very subject of abuse of Facebook's platform, Zuckerberg started the Yom Kippur holiday, the Jewish day of atonement, with a public comment on Sept. 30. "For those I hurt this year, I ask forgiveness and I will try to be better," Zuckerberg wrote on his Facebook wall. "For the ways my work was used to divide people rather than bring us together, I ask forgiveness." By the looks of it, the Cambridge Analytica story is only beginning to unfold. Many of Zuckerberg's lieutenants have weighed in, including Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos , who is reportedly leaving the company. Carolyn Everson, the company's vice president of marketing, said at a conference on Monday that, "If the allegations are true, this is an incredible violation of everything that we stand for." Hastings alone surely doesn't have all the answers. But it would seem that his experience with existential crises would be particularly valuable right about now. 


[w498]  Pressure mounts on Zuckerberg to face data breach concernsPressure mounts on Zuckerberg to face data breach concerns  19 March 2018  Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg is facing intensified calls to appear in person at investigations into the social network's conduct. His company has been accused of failing to properly inform users that their profile information may have been obtained and kept by Cambridge Analytica, a data firm widely-credited with helping Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. Facebook said on Friday it had blocked Cambridge Analytica from Facebook while it investigated claims the London-based firm did not, as promised, delete data that was allegedly obtained using methods that were in violation of Facebook's policies. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook deny any wrongdoing. Despite pledging that in 2018 he would "fix" his company, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has managed to avoid engaging with the site's growing number of critics - instead sending lawyers or policy bosses to various committee hearings. The 33-year-old's recent remarks on some of Facebook's controversies have been communicated in the relatively safe space of a blog post or video message published on his Facebook page. Facebook and Trump data firm 'misled' MPs US to investigate Trump campaign data firm Tech Tent: Facebook and Google take action With the building row over how Facebook data may have been used to fuel highly-targeted political propaganda , several influential figures on both side of the Atlantic this weekend said it was time for Mr Zuckerberg to step up to publicly defend - or at least justify - his creation. Some called for investigations into whether Mr Zuckerberg's company may have violated laws governing disclosure of a data breach - and also rules on properly obtaining a user's consent to collect personal information. "This is a major breach that must be investigated," demanded Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. "It’s clear these platforms can’t police themselves. I've called for more transparency and accountability for online political ads. They say 'trust us'." She added: "Mark Zuckerberg needs to testify before Senate Judiciary." 'High on themselves' That sentiment was backed by Adam Schiff, the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, which is already investigating social media manipulation in the run up to the 2016 presidential election. "I think it would be beneficial to have him come testify before the appropriate oversight committees," he told the Washington Post. "And not just Mark but the other CEOs of the other major companies that operate in this space." On Sunday morning TV, Florida senator and former presidential hopeful Marco Rubio told NBC's Meet the Press he felt technology companies acted as if they are "above" regulations. Eight reasons Facebook has peaked Social networks 'too slow' on changes Facebook broke German privacy laws "Their growth has been a lot faster than perhaps their ability to mature institutionally from within on some of these challenges that they're facing," he said. "I think another part about it is sometimes these companies grow so fast and get so much good press, they get up high on themselves that they start to think that perhaps they're above sort of the rules that apply to everybody else." Skip Twitter post by @alexstamos There are a lot of big problems that the big tech companies need to be better at fixing. We have collectively been too optimistic about what we build and our impact on the world. Believe it or not, a lot of the people at these companies, from the interns to the CEOs, agree. — Alex Stamos (@alexstamos) March 17, 2018 Report End of Twitter post by @alexstamos The man in charge of Britain's investigation into Russian meddling in the democratic process said he too wanted to press Mr Zuckerberg on the issue. "I will be writing to Mark Zuckerberg asking that either he or another senior executive from the company appear to give evidence in front of the committee as part our inquiry," said Damian Collins MP. "It is not acceptable that they have previously sent witnesses who seek to avoid asking difficult questions by claiming not to know the answers." Media playback is unsupported on your device In the age of big data, is our democracy open to manipulation? Mr Collins also said he would be recalling Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix to parliament to answer more questions. "It seems clear that he has deliberately misled the committee and parliament," Mr. Collins said. Cambridge Analytica and Mr Nix have denied any wrongdoing. Deleted tweets In an attempt to get out ahead of a story in the New York Times and Observer newspapers, Facebook made an announcement late Friday night, California time, that it was blocking Cambridge Analytica from using Facebook while it investigated claims the inappropriately-obtained data had not been deleted as promised. This was followed by remarks from Alex Stamos, the firm's chief security officer, who wrote and then deleted a series of tweets. He objected to the word "breach" being used to describe how data from as many as 50 million peoples' user profiles may have been obtained without explicit user consent. "I have deleted my tweets on Cambridge Analytica," he later wrote. "Not because they were factually incorrect but because I should have done a better job weighing in." Christopher Wylie, a Canadian data analytics expert who worked with Cambridge Analytica, revealed how it and its partners harvested data belonging to mostly US voters. Over the weekend, he announced he had been suspended from Facebook. Skip Twitter post by @chrisinsilico Suspended by @facebook . For blowing the whistle. On something they have known privately for 2 years. pic.twitter.com/iSu6VwqUdG — Christopher Wylie (@chrisinsilico) March 18, 2018 Report End of Twitter post by @chrisinsilico On top of its initial statement, Facebook on Sunday said it was conducting a "comprehensive internal and external review" into whether the data, gathered via an app created by Global Science Research (GSR), still existed. GSR was set up by University of Cambridge associate professor Aleksandr Kogan and his colleague Joseph Chancellor. According to the Guardian, Mr Chancellor was given a job at Facebook as a researcher just months after GSR carried out the data-gathering exercise that Facebook now says violated its policies. Facebook has not commented on the calls for Mr Zuckerberg to appear in front of the several committees expressing a desire to hear from him. But one analyst warned that this controversy is a direct threat to Facebook's business model, and therefore Mr Zuckerberg will be expected to put investors at ease, sooner rather than later. "This has potential to grow into something a lot more onerous," said Daniel Ives from GBH Insight. "So he has to get ahead of this storm before it turns into a hurricane."  


[w499]  UK data firm boss suspended over Facebook controversy Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix leaving its offices in central London  The board of Cambridge Analytica has announced that it has suspended chief executive Alexander Nix with immediate effect over claims it gathered Facebook users’ data without their permission. In a statement, the board said Mr Nix's recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 News and "other allegations" did not represent "the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which it views this violation". Last night, Channel 4 News screened footage of Mr Nix apparently offering to entrap the political rival of a reporter posing as a wealthy Sri Lankan saying they could "send some girls around" to his home. He also suggested making the rival candidate an offer "that's too good to be true" and then putting the video recording on the internet as "evidence of corruption". In its statement this evening, Cambridge Analytica said that an independent investigation is under way to review the comments and allegations,  It said: "We have asked Julian Malins QC to lead this investigation, the findings of which the board will share publicly in due course". The statement said the board will be monitoring the situation, working closely with newly-appointed acting CEO Dr Alexander Tayler, "to ensure that Cambridge Analytica, in all of its operations, represents the firm's values and delivers the highest-quality service to its clients." Cambridge Analytica say @Channel4News secret filming is reason it has suspended chief executive Alexander Nix. Watch the three reports here, as our investigations continue. #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered https://t.co/npYYddfkZY — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Read More: What is Cambridge Analytica? Zuckerberg called before UK inquiry into fake news Earlier, the British parliamentary committee investigating fake news announced that it was summoning Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence, accusing the company of giving "misleading" answers at a previous hearing on the issue. This evening, Facebook said that the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica. Last night, Mr Nix told BBC's Newsnight that the company had been the victim of a "co-ordinated attack by the media" because of its involvement in Donald Trump's presidential campaign.  "We see this as a coordinated attack by the media that's been going on for very, very many months in order to damage the company that had some involvement with the election of Donald Trump." Mr Nix said he had a "huge amount of regrets about the fact that we, maybe, undertook this meeting and spoke with a certain amount of hyperbole about some of the things that we do". He added: "I have some regrets about the way that I have represented what the company does. I certainly feel that the air of mystery and negativity that surrounds the work of Cambridge is misfounded and, as the CEO, I take responsibility for that." Meanwhile, the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner (ODPC) in Ireland said the micro-targeting of social media users with political advertisements and sponsored stories remains an ongoing issue. The ODPC said it will follow up with Facebook Ireland in relation to what forms of active oversight of app developers and third parties that use its platform are in place, with a view to ensuring it is effective. The ODPC said the loophole that enabled Facebook user data to be harvested by third parties was resolved in May 2014 when access to friends' data was restricted by a platform upgrade. It said the changes followed a 2012 recommendation by it to Facebook on foot of an audit a year earlier and subsequent re-audit. The ODPC also said the issue of purported misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica and other related firms is incorporated in the investigation of the UK Information Commissioner's Office of political influencing. "In the absence of laws specifically regulating such political targeting online, the Irish DPC intends to issue guidance to users in terms of how they can trace why they are receiving certain advertisements and stories on social media, how they can mute or turn off receiving advertisements from those sources and how they can amend their ad preferences to control the types of ads they are served," the OPDC said.      


[w500] Facebook drags technology companies down as stocks slide Facebook drags technology companies down as stocks slide Monday, March 19, 2018 - 10:39 PM Facebook plunged to its worst loss in four years on Monday and led a rout in technology companies. The social media company's stock fell following reports that a data mining firm working for the Trump campaign improperly obtained data on 50 million Facebook users. The drop came after the New York Times and the Guardian reported that the firm, Cambridge Analytica, tapped the profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission. Legislators in the US and Europe criticised Facebook and said they want more information about what happened. Investors wondered if companies like Facebook and Alphabet will face tighter regulation as a result. Daniel Ives, chief strategy officer and head of technology research for GBH Insights, said Facebook is in a crisis and will have to work hard to reassure users, investors and governments. "This is a defining moment for them," he said. "It either becomes a blip on the radar and it helps the platform mature... or it becomes the start of something broader." Elsewhere, the British pound rose and European stocks slumped after Britain and the European Union said they were getting closer to a deal that will complete Britain's departure from the EU in March 2019. The S&P; 500 index sank 39.09 points, or 1.4%, to 2,712.92. The benchmark index took its biggest loss since February 8 when it tumbled almost 4% as investors worried that rising inflation would slow the progress of the market and the US economy. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 335.60 points, or 1.3%, to 24,610.91. During the day it fell as much as 493 points. The Nasdaq composite gave up 137.74 points, or 1.8%, to 7,344.24, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks declined 15.49 points, or 1%, to 1,570.56. Larger technology companies including Apple and Microsoft fared worse than smaller ones. Another market favourite, Amazon, also dropped, and health care stocks fell more than the rest of the market. The pound rose to 1.4050 dollars from 1.3938. The FTSE 100 index fell 1.7%, Germany's Dax fell 1.4%, and France's Cac-40 was 1.1% lower. Facebook said late on Friday that it had suspended Cambridge Analytica and its parent company. It said Cambridge obtained data from 270,000 people who downloaded a purported research app that was described as a personality test. A former employee said Cambridge got data from tens of millions of other users who were friends with the people who downloaded the app. Facebook first learned of the breach more than two years ago but had not disclosed it. Facebook also said it recently received a report that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it obtained from Facebook, something Facebook said the company claimed to have done. Senator Amy Klobuchar said Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg should testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee while legislators in Britain and the European Union also called for inquiries. On Monday Facebook said it had hired an outside firm to audit Cambridge. Its stock sank 12.53 dollars, or 6.8%, to 172.56 dollars, its biggest one-day loss since March 2014. Mr Ives said Wall Street is more concerned about the latest situation than it was about issues like Facebook's platform spreading fake news, because Cambridge reportedly got access to the personal data of a large number of users, and the backlash suggests Facebook may face more regulation and could lose users, advertisers or advertising revenue. He estimated that 5 billion dollars in annual revenue for Facebook might be at risk and said the situation could create problems for other tech companies, especially Twitter and Alphabet's YouTube unit. Alphabet lost 34.35 dollars, or 3%, to 1,100.07 dollars. Twenty-nine of the 30 Dow stocks finished the day with losses. The only exception was plane maker Boeing. Bond prices gave up an early gain. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note remained at 2.85%. Benchmark US crude fell 28 cents to 62.06 dollars a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost 16 cents to 66.05 dollars per barrel in London. Wholesale petrol lost 2 cents to 1.92 dollars a gallon, heating oil remained at 1.91 dollars a gallon, and natural gas fell 4 cents to 2.65 dollars per 1,000 cubic feet. Gold added 5.50 dollars to 1,317.80 an ounce, silver rose 5 cents to 16.33 dollars an ounce, and copper lost 2 cents to 3.08 dollars a pound. 

[w501] Cambridge Analytica executives filmed allegedly touting use of bribery, entrapment to swing elections around the world


[w502] Facebook: Cambridge Analytica’s deceptive pitching tacticsCambridge Analytica’s pitching tactics caught on video A FIRM that worked on the Trump campaign has been caught on camera bragging about its dirty political tactics. Video Image Cambridge Analytica executives brag about dirty political tactics Chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix brags about the tactics used to trick an opposition leader during political campaigns.  Cambridge Analytica executives Mark Turnbull and Alexander Nix are seen discussing the firm’s work in the undercover footage. Picture: Channel 4 UNDERCOVER footage has captured executives from political data firm Cambridge Analytica discussing how it could potentially entrap an opposition leader. Reporters from British broadcaster Channel 4 News met with the firm’s executives, posing as potential clients seeking to change the outcome of the Sri Lankan election. In the hidden camera footage, which aired in the UK and the US overnight, the executives of the company can be seen pitching their firm and the work they do. Reporters captured the company’s chief executive Alexander Nix discussing how the Sri Lankan opposition leader could potentially become entrapped. Mr Nix also revealed how the company could record someone accepting a bribe or could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house”. He also said it’s easy to spread information about politicians saying it just has to be believed and not necessarily true. The reporters also recorded Cambridge Analytica Political Global managing director Mark Turnbull discussing his relationships with former British spies who now work at private companies. Cambridge Analytica, which worked on Donald Trump’s election campaign, has already come under fire this week over allegations that it tapped the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million people without their permission. As revealed by The Guardian and The New York Times , the data may have been used to influence the outcome of the United States election in 2016. The firm, which is owned by hedge fund billionaire and Trump supporter Robert Mercer, says it can analyse consumer data — including social media and its own polling — in order to target people with marketing material. The company has said the footage doesn’t represent the work it does. Picture: Channel 4 ‘GROSS MISREPSENTATION’ In a statement, Cambridge Analytica slammed the hidden footage report which is claimed was scripted and edited to “grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how it does business”. Tonight’s @Channel4News story gives a highly misleading picture of the company and what we do. https://t.co/XlJEM9ujK3 — Cambridge Analytica (@CamAnalytica) March 19, 2018 The statement denies “any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” It goes on to say Cambridge Analytica held a series of meetings to discuss philanthropic, infrastructure and political projects in Sri Lanka. It also said an executive set out the principles which govern its work and told the reporter: “We’re not in the business of fake news, we’re not in the business of lying, making stuff up and we’re not in the business of entrapment ... There are companies that do this but to me that crosses a line.” Mr Nix did however acknowledge he misjudged the situation and was only playing along with the ‘ludicrous’ conversation. “In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios. I am aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honey-traps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose,” he said. “I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner.” Cambridge Analytica is at the heart of a scandal over the use of personal data collected on Facebook. Picture: Loic Venance/AFP FACEBOOK FURY The footage comes as Britain’s information commissioner said she will apply for a warrant to access the servers of Cambridge Analytica, over the mined Facebook data. Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said in a statement that she planned to seek the warrant because the British firm had been “uncooperative” in her investigation of whether Facebook data was “illegally acquired and used”. Data from the Federal Election Commission shows that Cambridge Analytica earned $US5.9 million ($A7.6 million) in 2016 from the campaign to elect Mr Trump for president. Cambridge also earned $US5.8 million ($A7.5 million) from Senator Ted Cruz’s failed presidential campaign. In total, Cambridge Analytica earned more than $US16 million ($A21 million) from 2014 to 2016 from nearly 20 Republican candidates and political committees. Facebook suspended the company from using its services on Friday, hours before the reports came out. The tech giant first learned of the breach more than two years ago, but hasn’t disclosed it until now. Meanwhile Cambridge Analytics former director of data research Christopher Wylie said the firm secured personal data in order to learn about individuals and then used it to create an information cocoon to change their perceptions. He said the firm used “informational dominance” to capture every channel of information around a person to surround them with curated information, changing their perception of what’s actually happening. In an interview on Monday on NBC’s Today , Mr Wylie said Cambridge Analytica aimed to “explore mental vulnerabilities of people”. While he said he doesn’t know to what extent Mr Trump’s campaign used the techniques, he said the President’s former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was meeting with Cambridge Analytica in 2015, before he even announced his run for office. Update: The board of Cambridge Analytica says it has suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation of his actions. The board cited comments Nix made to an undercover reporter for Britain’s Channel 4 News and other allegations of wrongdoing for its action Tuesday. It says his comments “do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view the violation.” The board says in an announcement posted on the data-mining company’s website that the suspension is effective immediately. 


[w503] 

[w504] Cambridge Analytica techniques have 'a lot of cross over' with advertisingCambridge Analytica is the small data crunching firm that uses psychometric modelling to map behaviours and target messages. Over the weekend a whistleblower blew the lid on how it harvested up to 60 million Facebook profiles to help Donald Trump with the US election . The firm also works with brands and is eyeing an Australian office. AdNews recently spent five minutes with Cambridge Analytica head of product Matt Oczkowski – Trump’s data man – to see how the machine can be applied to marketing. Cambridge Analytica’s impact on Trump’s presidential campaign is a terrifying affirmation of the power data can have on results, and a fascinating case study. What the company achieved in five short months after being appointed by Trump is nothing short of astonishing, but the interesting thing for this industry is what it could do for brands and marketers, and where regulators should draw a line. AdNews: The impact on the Trump campaign was huge. What could a similar approach offer brands? Matt Oczkowski (MO): There is a lot of crossover. Whether you want to vote for Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton, or whether you want to buy cereal or Coca-Cola, understanding the behavioural motivations behind individuals is key. Presidential campaigns are well-funded but a lot of the lessons are universal. The great thing about [election] campaigns is that they force innovation. AdNews: What about publishers? MO: I’ve been most excited about the publisher side as it gives you access to not only people but what content they’re reading. Publishers are the perfect target for what we do. The problem is many publishers are addicted to display advertising. It’s a massive source of revenue but it’s decreasing. I want to work with publishers to adapt new models that get them away from problematic advertising units. The long-term vision is using the quality and value of data [to build] a better user experience because the consumer market has moved to a place where people are sick of annoying advertising. AdNews: Data and targeting is often still reduced to simple demographics. Why is there a gap between what brands do and what’s possible? MO: We’ve gotten really good at figuring out who to talk to but we haven’t got good at what to say to those people. I could slice you thousands of segments but there’s no agency in the world that would be able to produce that much unique creative. Demographics aren’t the enemy but things like age and gender alone don’t tell the whole story about a person. We need to cluster people up in ways that get beyond demographics and bringing in more data points and understand people’s networks, communities, and how all that ties in. AdNews: Trump is controversial. Can you rationalise your involvement in light of the impact on the political climate and economy? MO: There’s a lot of answers for that. A lot of engineers and data scientists that work for us took 50% pay cuts to work on the campaign and work harder than they did previously. You’re not doing this if you don’t believe in it. There is a lot of dislike for Mr. Trump and I get that, but just as many people or more disliked Hillary Clinton. I’ve exclusively worked for Republicans my whole life, the reason I got involved was because I’m passionate. I understand the impact these things have on the rest of the world but I’m not a political guy or a policy maker, I’m a technologist. Typically, I try to keep my beliefs away from the candidates I work for. AdNews: A lot has been written about Cambridge Analytica and some of the tactics have been called snake oil – is that fair? MO: My answer is always that good candidates with good methods will win elections. Data science does not win elections, data science helps with the margins. A lot of things that are said are relatively untrue. What we did was help define his overall message, figure out who to talk to and what to say to those people. What we’re doing is applying proven science. What we do with psych and the OCEAN5 [scale of personality] is the same thing IBM is doing with Watson, so if you call what we do snake oil then you are calling the entire scientific industry snake oil. People say ‘you’re the reason Trump won’, but we’re just part of the team that helped. Mr Trump won the election.


[w505] 

[w506] 

[w507]  How Cambridge Analytica harvested Facebook data, triggering new outcry How Cambridge Analytica harvested Facebook data, triggering new outcry The New York Times report that a political firm hired by the Trump campaign acquired access to private data on millions of Facebook users has sparked new questions about how the social media giant protects user information. Who collected all that data? Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users. The firm offered tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behaviour. The idea was to map personality traits based on what people had liked on Facebook. Photo: Wayne Taylor Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen K. Bannon, a former adviser to the president who became an early board member and gave the firm its name. It has pitched its services to potential clients ranging from Mastercard and the New York Yankees to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. What kind of information was collected, and how was it acquired? Advertisement The data, a portion of which was viewed by The New York Times , included details on users' identities, friend networks and "likes." The idea was to map personality traits based on what people had liked on Facebook, and then use that information to target audiences with digital ads. Researchers in 2014 asked users to take a personality survey and download an app, which scraped some private information from their profiles and those of their friends, activity that Facebook permitted at the time and has since banned. The technique had been developed at Cambridge University's Psychometrics Center. The centre declined to work with Cambridge Analytica, but Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American psychology professor at the university, was willing. Kogan built his own app and in June 2014 began harvesting data for Cambridge Analytica. He ultimately provided more than 50 million raw profiles to the firm, said Christopher Wylie, a data expert who oversaw Cambridge Analytica's data harvesting. Only about 270,000 users — those who participated in the survey — had consented to having their data harvested, though they were all told that it was being used for academic use. Facebook said no passwords or "sensitive pieces of information" had been taken, though information about a user's location was available to Cambridge. Replay So was Facebook hacked? Facebook in recent days has insisted that what Cambridge did was not a data breach, because it routinely allows researchers to have access to user data for academic purposes — and users consent to this access when they create a Facebook account. Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen Bannon, pictured. Photo: AP But Facebook prohibits this kind of data to be sold or transferred "to any ad network, data broker or other advertising or monetisation-related service." It says that was exactly what Kogan did, in providing the information to a political consulting firm. Kogan declined to provide The Times with details of what had happened, citing nondisclosure agreements with Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica officials, after denying that they had obtained or used Facebook data, changed their story last week. In a statement to The Times, the company acknowledged that it had acquired the data, though it blamed Kogan for violating Facebook's rules and said it had deleted the information as soon as it learned of the problem two years ago. But the data, or at least copies, may still exist. The Times was recently able to view a set of raw data from the profiles Cambridge Analytica obtained. Replay What is Facebook doing in response? The company issued a statement Friday saying that in 2015, when it learned that Kogan's research had been turned over to Cambridge Analytica, violating its terms of service, it removed Kogan's app from the site. It said it had demanded and received certification that the data had been destroyed. Facebook also said: "Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted. We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. If true, this is another unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments they made. We are suspending SCL/Cambridge Analytica, Wylie and Kogan from Facebook, pending further information." In a further step, Facebook said Monday that it had hired a digital forensics firm "to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists." It said Cambridge Analytica had agreed to the review and that Kogan had given a verbal commitment, while Wylie "thus far has declined." What are others saying? Facebook, already facing deep questions over the use of its platform by those seeking to spread Russian propaganda and fake news, is facing a renewed backlash after the news about Cambridge Analytica. Investors have not been pleased, sending shares of the company down about 7 per cent Monday. — Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has pressed Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, to appear before the panel to explain what the social network knew about the misuse of its data "to target political advertising and manipulate voters." — The attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey, announced on Saturday that her office was opening an investigation. "Massachusetts residents deserve answers immediately from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica," she said in a Twitter post. Facebook's lack of disclosure on the harvesting of data could violate privacy laws in Britain and several states. — Damian Collins, a Conservative lawmaker in Britain who is leading a parliamentary inquiry into fake news and Russian meddling in the country's referendum on leaving the European Union, said this weekend that he, too, would call on Zuckerberg or another top executive to testify. T


[w508] Big problem Facebook can’t fix  	EVER paranoid that you're being "watched" on social media? The latest drama surrounding Facebook probably won't help lessen those feelings. 	The social media giant is currently embroiled in the largest data scandal of its history, following allegations that Cambridge Analytica tapped the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million people without their permission. 	The story was broken by The Guardian over the weekend, who reported the data may have been used to influence the outcome of the United States election in 2016. WHAT IS CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA? 	Cambridge Analytica is a British data analysis firm that offers services to businesses and groups wanting to "change audience behaviour". 	The firm, which is owned by hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, says it can analyse consumer data - including social media and its own polling - in order to target people with marketing material. 	It worked for both President Donald Trump's election campaign, and the campaign of Republican Senator Ted Cruz. OK, SO WHAT'S THE SCANDAL? 	Over the weekend, The Guardian revealed that the personal data of 50 million Facebook profiles was illegally harvested by Cambridge Analytica. 	It all started in 2015, when a Cambridge psychology professor named Aleksandr Kogan created an app called "thisisyourdigitallife". 	The app was a personality quiz, described by Dr Kogan as "a research app used by psychologists". 	His company Global Science Research had a deal to share this information with Cambridge Analytica. 	Around 270,000 Facebook users signed up, and were paid to take personality tests which would be stored by the company.  	But here's where things get dicey: the app also collected the information of the users' Facebook friends, who - unless they had already signed up to the app - did not consent to having their personal information stored. 	This was revealed by Christopher Wylie, a whistleblower and analytics expert who worked with Cambridge Analytica. 	"We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles," he told The Guardian . "And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on." 	The app relied on its users consenting on behalf of all their friends - or at least, those whose privacy settings were to set to allow sharing with a friend's app - to receive "more limited information". 	The information was reportedly used to map out the behaviour of voters in the lead-up to the 2016 election, as well as the Brexit campaign earlier that year. 	The reports suggest over 50 million people had their data harvested without their permission. HOW DID THE FIRM RESPOND? 	Cambridge Analytica denied any wrongdoing, claiming it fully complied with Facebook's term of service. 	The firm claimed allegations that it obtained and used Facebook data were false, and said none of it was used in the 2016 presidential election. 	The Trump campaign has also denied any wrongdoing, saying it never used Cambridge Analytica's data. "The campaign used the RNC for its voter data and not Cambridge Analytica," it said in a statement. 	The app was removed by Facebook in 2015, and the firm reportedly assured the social media network that it had deleted all the data. 	But according to the New York Times , copies of the data are still available online.  WHY IS FACEBOOK COPPING CRITICISM? 	Facebook has come under pressure to be more transparent about how its users' data is or potentially can be used by third-party companies. 	Critics say the scandal highlights its ongoing problem to grasp how its platform is handled by others. 	The social media giant had known since 2015 that the information had been harvested but did nothing to protect its users, according to reports. 	The network attempted to suggest it was deceived, and that those involved shouldn't have lied about deleting the data. 	In a series of now-deleted tweets, Facebook's chief security officer Alex Stamos said Dr Kogan "lied to those users and he lied to Facebook about what he was using the data for". 	  	  	In a blog post, Facebook said: "Several days ago, we received reports that, contrary to the certifications we were given, not all data was deleted. We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. If true, this is another unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments they made."  	Politicians and critics from both the US and Britain slammed the network following the reports. 	British legislator Damian Collins accused Facebook of misleading officials by downplaying the risk of users' data being shared without their consent. 	He said Facebook has "consistently understated" the risk of data leaks and gave misleading answers to the committee. 	"Someone has to take responsibility for this," he told the Associated Press. "It's time for Mark Zuckerberg to stop hiding behind his Facebook page." 	US Senator Jeff Flake told CNN: "This is a big deal, when you have that amount of data. And the privacy violations there are significant. So, the question is, who knew it? When did they know it? How long did this go on? And what happens to that data now?" 	At the same time, the social media network faces ongoing criticism over the spread of Russian propaganda, with an investigation still underway to determine whether "fake news" and Russian hacking influenced the 2016 election outcome.

[w509] 

[w511]  The Cambridge Analytica Facebook data breach explained The Cambridge Analytica Facebook data breach explained  0:00    /  Share    Ever taken one of those cute personality tests on Facebook? Maybe think twice.  Updated 19 March By   What happened? Data firm Cambridge Analytica is fast becoming a house-hold name after two media outlets revealed its involvement in Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Cambridge Analytica has been accused of harvesting the data of some 50 million Facebook users' profiles without their knowledge to help it design software to predict and influence voters’ choices at the ballot box. Just hours before the Observer and the New York Times broke the story over the weekend, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform, pending an investigation, in an apparent pre-emptive strike to limit the damage to its own brand. The tech giant has announced a review into the potential privacy breach as it comes under intense scrutiny by US and British politcians. Cambridge Analytica, meanwhile, has said it deleted the data before it even started work on the Trump campaign. Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix will now face another grilling by British politicians, while Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been summoned to speak to a UK House of Commons committee about the misuse of data.   Why do we care? Well, because so many of us are on Facebook, which has built its entire massive business on its users’ data - their likes, networks, locations and browsing histories. Facebook is free to you, because you are not the customer but the product. Your data, aggregated with millions of others', is an incredibly powerful tool for anyone who wants to convince a lot of people to vote for someone or buy something. We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. Christopher Wylie In the words of Christopher Wylie, the Canadian data analytics specialist and whistle-blower that created the system and now, deeply troubled by its consequences, has exposed it: “I built Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare mindf--k tool.” Steve Bannon was the driving force behind the election of Donald Trump, one of the most disruptive and controversial presidents in US history. "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis that the entire company was built on," Wylie told the Observer. This appears to be the starkest example yet of how social media is being used for political purposes at the highest levels.  RELATED ITEMS Facebook suspends Trump campaign data firm Cambridge Analytica How did it work? The New York Times reports that Cambridge Analytica spent US$800,000 in 2014 to get Russian-American academic Aleksandr Kogan to build an app to harvest the data of Facebook users. He created a personality quiz called "thisisyourdigitallife" and Cambridge Analytica paid for people to take it. 270,000-odd people downloaded the app.  According to Facebook, users consent for their information to be used simply by downloading the app, but media reports said it also extracted the personal data of each of those users’ friends, unbeknown to them. Aleksandr Kogan then passed all the data his app collected on some 50 million users onto Cambridge Analytica and other companies. Of those accounts, sufficient data had been gleaned to create psychographic profiles on 30 million of them, which it used to understand and influence voter behaviour for its clients. Facebook said it removed the app in 2015 when it learned of the violations, and told everyone who received the misappropriated data to destroy it. But it has now emerged from several sources speaking to several media outlets that the data had not been deleted. Facebook has since pushed back a bit, quibbling that it was “not a data breach.” The tech giant's deputy general counsel Paul Grewal said in the company’s statement  that all misused data was “knowingly provided” by users, and did not extend to those users’ Facebook friends - or at least not to those who had privacy settings turned on. But Facebook has suspended it anyway because it violated Facebook’s rules when the data was handed to a third party - Cambridge Analytica - for targeting political ads. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been summoned over data breach. AFP Karen Bleier Who is Cambridge Analytica? Set up in London in 2013, Cambridge Analytica purports to help its clients “change audience behaviour” using consumer data from social media and polling combined with behavioural science. Its right wing founder Alexander Nix told the website Contagious that it was set up “to address the vacuum in the US Republican political market” after Mitt Romney’s 2012 defeat. Former Cambridge Analytica insider Chris Wylie outlined the firm's strategy to ABC America.  "It is sort of like the digital shadow of yourself. So, when you think about what you do on social media, you curate your identity." "Cambridge Analytica will try to pick at whatever mental weakness or vulnerability that we think you have and try to warp your perception of what's real around you," he said. The firm was bankrolled to the tune of $15 million by US hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, a major Republican donor. At the time, Steve Bannon - a top Trump adviser until he was fired last summer - was a director of the company. RELATED ITEMS Republicans slam Facebook for allowing Cambridge Analytica to take users' data Following the suspension on the weekend, the company said it was in touch with Facebook "in order to resolve this matter as quickly as possible ," denying it violated Facebook’s terms of service. It blamed the misuse of data on Kogan and said it has since deleted all the data it received from a company he founded, Global Science Research. What is the Trump connection? Donald Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner had boasted that he brought in Cambridge Analytica to help win the 2016 US Presidential election for Mr Trump, according to the New York Times. Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating possible Trump campaign collusion with Russia during the election, thinks the company could be a key link in his case. The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Mr Mueller has ordered Cambridge Analytica to turn over internal documents. RELATED ITEMS US probe looking at Kushner's foreign business contacts: report The company has sought quickly to hose down the Trump connection, claiming that none of the data obtained through Kogan and Global Science Research “was used by Cambridge Analytica as part of the services it provided to the Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign.” But Robert Mueller is not expected to let this one go. What does this mean for Facebook users? The compromise of 50 million users’ data raises a lot of questions over whether, as Facebook said in its statement: “protecting people’s information is at the heart of everything we do.” The company was already under fire over the way its news feed was effectively gamed to spread deliberate misinformation deployed by Russian interests to sway voters during the 2016 US election campaign - another huge blow to its reputation. Facebook has not informed users whose data was compromised of the fact. Going forward, even if third party apps obtain users' data legitimately according to Facebook's own rules, they may then be acquired by other companies who use it, in breach of the rules.  So the social media platform’s 2.2 billion users may well be wondering how safe their data is, and whether the company has undertaken any systemic action to stop misuse when it has clearly known about this problem for a few years, but only acted on Friday ahead of media exposure.  What happens now? In the UK, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are already the subject of an inquiry into data and politics by the Information Commissioner’s Office and another one by the Electoral Commission to investigate what role it played in the Brexit referendum (the company has said it did not work for the ‘Leave’ vote, but this has been contradicted by the co-founder of Leave.EU, Arron Banks). In the US, Democrat senators called for new regulations on Facebook over the weekend, and some Republican senators questioned the company’s actions. But it was unclear whether the Republican-controlled Congress would act. Facebook said it was conducting a thorough internal review. Australian connection The data mining firm has been trying to expand its operations overseas, including in Australia. Cambridge Analytica is registered in Australia at a property in the Sydney suburb of Maroubra; however, the man who registered the firm said it has never conducted any business here.  But in April 2017, Senator Dan Tehan was among a group of Liberal politicians who met an executive from Cambridge Analytica. In a brief statement issued on Monday, the Liberal Party said it was not using the firm. 0:00 Senator Don Farrell grills Mitch Fifield on Australia’s association with Cambridge Analytica  

[w512] 

[w513] The Noisy Fallacies of Cambridge Analytica and Psychographic Targeting The Noisy Fallacies of Psychographic Targeting Cambridge Analytica’s targeting efforts probably didn’t work, but Facebook should be embarrassed anyway. in the deafening media cycle around the story, it’s probably unnecessary to summarize the going Facebook/Cambridge Analytica scandal, but briefly and just in case: Facebook recently announced the suspension of a marketing data company called Cambridge Analytica from its platform after a whistleblower confirmed it had misused ill-gotten Facebook data to construct so-called “psychographic” models and help Trump win the presidency. For the impatient, my fundamental thesis is this: Cambridge Analytica’s data theft and targeting efforts probably didn’t even work, but Facebook should be embarrassed anyhow. For the more patient: What on earth is the sinister-sound “psychographics” about, and how is your Facebook data involved? Antonio García Martínez ( @antoniogm ) is an Ideas contributor for WIRED. Before turning to writing, he dropped out of a doctoral program in physics to work on Goldman Sachs’ credit trading desk, then joined the Silicon Valley startup world, where he founded his own startup (acquired by Twitter in 2011), and finally joined Facebook’s early monetization team, where he headed its targeting efforts. His 2016 memoir, Chaos Monkeys , was a New York Times best seller and NPR Best Book of the Year, and his writing has appeared in Vanity Fair, The Guardian, and The Washington Post . He splits his time between a sailboat on the SF Bay and a yurt in Washington’s San Juan Islands. The awkward portmanteau coinage of “psychographics” is meant to be a riff on the “demographics” (i.e. age, gender, geography), which are the usual parameters of how marketers talk about advertising audiences. The difference here is that the marketer attempts to capture some essential psychological state, or some particular combination of values and lifestyle, that imply a proclivity for the product in question. If it sounds nebulous, not to say somewhat astrological, it is. As a great example of the type of cartoonish zodiac that emerges from this approach, take the age-old classic, the Claritas PRIZM segments (now owned and marketed by Nielsen), which have been around since the 90s. One sample segment: Kids & Cul-de-Sacs:  Upscale, suburban, married couples with children - that's the skinny on Kids & Cul-de-Sacs, an enviable lifestyle of large families in recently built subdivisions. […] Their nexus of education, affluence and children translates into large outlays for child-centered products and services. This sort of caricature of a consumer segment was created as much for potential targeting as for populating ad agency pitches to clients. It took a complex and bewildering world of consumer data and preferences and reduced them to a neat mythology of just-so stories that got ad budgets approved. (“Aspirational Annie wants a starter car!” “Gregarious Greg spends over $400 per month on entertainment!”) With the rise of programmatic, software-driven advertising in the late aughts, these truthy marketing fairy tales have taken a more quantitative tinge. Which, in the context of Facebook and Cambridge Analytics, is where the psychometricians at Cambridge University come in. Two researchers at the Department of Psychology there, Michal Kosinksi and David Stillwell, had endeavored to craft completely algorithmic approaches to human psychological evaluation. Those efforts included a popular 2007 Facebook app called myPersonality that allowed Facebook users to take a psychometric test and see themselves ranked against the ‘Big Five’ personality traits of openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism (often shortened to OCEAN). According to the report in The Guardian ,which first ran the whistleblower’s claims, Cambridge Analytica had approached the authors of the myPersonality app for help with its ads targeting campaign. On being rebuffed, another researcher associated with Cambridge’s psychology faculty, Aleksandr Kogan, offered to step in and reproduce the model. (Interestingly, you can still take some of their psychometric personality tests here . Don’t worry! No Facebook login required!) Academic research centers with experimental volunteers and small sample sizes are one thing, but how do you do the study psychographics at Facebook scale? With an app, of course. Kogan wrote a Facebook app that asked Facebook users to walk through their computer-driven rating criteria with the specific view of ranking their ‘OCEAN’ characteristics, plus political inclinations. Here is where the skullduggery comes in: Let’s assume you build a model that can actually predict a voter’s likelihood of voting for Trump or Brexit based on some set of polled psychological traits. For it to be more than a research paper, you need to somehow exploit the model for actual ads targeting. But the problem is that Facebook doesn’t actually give you the tools to target a psychological state of mind (not yet, anyway)—it only offers pieces of user data such as Likes. To effectively target an ad, Kogan would need to peg diffuse characteristics like neuroticism and openness to a series of probable Facebook Likes, and for Cambridge Analytics, he had to do it at a large scale. Whether Kogan’s subjects realized it or not when they opted-in to his Facebook app, they allowed him to read some of their Facebook profile data. And for his collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, Kogan then hoovered in those users’ data, plus their friends’ data as well. (Facebook’s platform rules allowed this until mid-2015). That’s how the number of compromised users got as high as a reported 50 million. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica didn’t lure that many test subjects. They simply paid for or attracted hundreds of thousands, and pulling data from their subjects’ friends got them something like a third of the US electorate. With the Facebook police asleep, and data theft pulled off, what was Cambridge Analytica’s next step? They had to train a predictive model that guessed what sorts of Likes or Facebook profile data their targeted political archetypes possessed. In other words, now that Cambridge had a test set of people likely to vote for Trump, and knowing their profile data, how do they turn around and create a set of profile data the Trump campaign can input to the Facebook targeting system to reach more people like them? Note that the aspiring psychograficist (if that’s even a thing) is now making two predictive leaps to arrive at a voter target: guessing about individual political inclinations based on rather metaphysical properties like “conscientiousness;" and predicting what sort of Facebook user behaviors are also common among people with that same psychological quality. It’s two noisy predictors chained together, which is why psychographics have never been used much for Facebook ads targeting, though people have tried. While these conclusions are hard to make categorically even with the data in hand (and impossible to make without), a straw poll among my friends in the industry reveal near-unanimous skepticism about the effectiveness of psychographic targeting. One of the real macro stories about this election and Facebook’s involvement is how many of the direct-response advertising techniques (such as online retargeting) that are commonplace in commercial advertising are now making their way into political advertising. It seems the same products that can sell you soap and shoes can also sell you on a political candidate. Conversely, if this psychographics business is so effective, why isn’t it commonly used by smart e-commerce players like Amazon, or anyone else beyond the brand advertisers who like keeping old marketing folklore alive? One of the ironies of this most recent Facebook brouhaha is the differing reactions between the digital marketing professionals who’ve spent a career turning money into advertising pixels and a concerned public otherwise innocent to the realities of digital advertising. Most ad insiders express skepticism about Cambridge Analytica’s claims of having influenced the election, and stress the real-world difficulty of changing anyone’s mind about anything with mere Facebook ads, least of all deeply ingrained political views. The public, with no small help from the media sniffing a great story, is ready to believe in the supernatural powers of a mostly unproven targeting strategy. What they don’t realize is what every ads practitioner, including no doubt Cambridge Analytica itself, knows subconsciously: in the ads world, just because a product doesn’t work doesn’t mean you can’t sell it. Before this most recent leak, and its subsquent ban on Facebook, Cambridge Analytica was quite happy to sell its purported skills, no matter how dubious they might really be. More Cambridge Analytica The data team the Trump campaign leaned on in 2016 has come into focus this week over the apparent misuse of the data of 50 million Facebook users Cambridge Analytica execs were caught discussing extortion and fake news A look at the company—and the controversy around it—from the summer of 2016 Photograph by WIRED/Getty Images Related Video How to Lock Down Your Facebook Security and Privacy Settings The only way to be truly secure on Facebook is to delete your account. But that's crazy talk! Here's how to lock down your privacy and security and bonus, keep targeted ads at bay. 


[w514]  Meet The Psychologist At The Center Of Facebook's Data Scandal GAleksandr Kogan was suspended by Facebook over allegations he lied about how certain data would be used        In a video published online in September, a social scientist named Alex Spectre made an earnest pitch for his new startup. Clad in the Silicon Valley uniform of open-collar shirt and blazer, Spectre boasted that his company -- Philometrics -- would revolutionize the way online surveys were done, making it easier for companies to design questionnaires that people would actually respond to on Facebook, Twitter or other sites. Crucially, he said, the surveys could predict the responses for large groups from a small number of respondents and micro-target ads better. "The reality is working with big data, social media is incredibly difficult," said Spectre, who more commonly goes by Aleksandr Kogan, which he uses in his role as a Cambridge University researcher. "You want to work with people who have a lot of experience. You want to connect with people who have been working with these massive data sets." Kogan would know. On Friday, he was suspended by Facebook Inc. for his earlier work mining data on what the New York Times reported was as many as 50 million Facebook users and sharing it with Cambridge Analytica, a political-advertising firm that helped Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Facebook suspended Kogan over allegations that he lied when he said the data would be used for research purposes only. The social network suspended Cambridge Analytica as well. The boyish-appearing Kogan has been thrown into the center of a scandal that has called into question not only the methods the Trump campaign used to psychoanalyze and target potential voters and win the presidency, but also the practices of Silicon Valley companies in allowing third parties to access and exploit private information. Facebook has since disabled the feature that let Kogan amass personal data on millions of users when less than 1 percent of those people even downloaded his app. But the episode offers a glimpse into how promiscuous some internet giants actually are with information that many users assume is always kept secret.  Government officials in the U.S. and Europe are calling for Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to appear in front of lawmakers, and the demands for answers may foreshadow tougher regulation for the social network. Kogan didn't respond to multiple attempts to reach him for comment. His ill-fated detour from the academic track into the darker corners of social media marketing began in 2014 when U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica turned to Kogan for help. The firm was interested in a data project Kogan had worked on at Cambridge University that was based on research into personality traits and social media. Kogan, who had moved to the U.S. from Russia as a child and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 2008 with a degree in psychology before moving to Hong Kong for his doctorate, ultimately joined Cambridge University in 2012, where he remains a research associate in the psychology department, a position he has retained since relocating back to the San Francisco Bay area. While at Cambridge University, Kogan formed a company in the U.K. called Global Science Research, which created an app called 'thisisyourdigitallife' that offered Facebook users personality predictions, in exchange for accessing their personal data on the social network and more limited information about their friends -- including their "likes" -- if their privacy settings allowed it. Only about 270,000 people downloaded the app, but the researchers were able to mine the profiles of tens of millions of people through tools Facebook had at the time that gave third parties access to a wide swath of information. Kogan's company then took the results of those personality surveys and matched them to the users' actual likes on Facebook -- and the likes of their friends -- to build a model predicting personalities based on digital behavior. The company eventually gave Cambridge Analytica a list of millions of people in the U.S., with their names, locations, genders, ages and predicted test scores. In his 2017 video promoting Philometrics, Kogan touted his team's unique expertise in cracking this code, of predicting the tastes of a large group of people from the responses of a smaller one, which he described as one of the central challenges of doing online research or targeted marketing. "Social media data is incredible in its opportunities, but it's also incredibly challenging," Kogan said in the video. Until 2014, Facebook's rules let third parties access this back-door channel to friends' data. That year, the company tightened its privacy settings to "ensure that each person decides what information they want to share about themselves, including their friend list." Facebook has worked to counter the description of what happened as a "breach," but the reality is that the underlying act of data scraping by third parties was not only permitted but encouraged by the social network -- raising questions about how many others abused their access to Facebook user information. For its part, Cambridge Analytica said the Facebook data wasn't used as part of the services it provided to Trump's presidential campaign, adding that it fully complies with Facebook's terms of service and is working with the company to resolve the matter. A person familiar with Kogan's company's work last year told Bloomberg News that the methodology and data that it gave to Cambridge Analytica was almost useless in predicting individual personalities, because of a high error rate, and that Cambridge Analytica's claim of being able to provide behavioral micro-targeting of ads down to the individual level is more marketing bluster than Big Brother. The more difficult issue for Facebook is that it had been aware of the controversy over Kogan and Cambridge Analytica's use of the information since 2015, when Facebook demanded he and Cambridge Analytica delete the data. The social network is now dealing with the fallout of being unable to police how collectors of private Facebook data during that time used the information, and whether they followed Facebook's rules about sharing or selling it. Facebook is also investigating whether one of its employees, Joseph Chancellor, who formed Global Science Research with Kogan while Chancellor was a doctoral student at Cambridge University, knew about the data leak. Chancellor is now a social-psychology researcher at Facebook. He didn't respond to a message via LinkedIn seeking comment. Cambridge University said in a statement that it had no evidence to suggest that Kogan had used university resources or facilities for the Global Science Research work, but that it has contacted Facebook requesting "all relevant evidence in their possession." The University said that Kogan had sought permission from the head of the psychology department to work with St. Petersburg University on the condition that any grants he received would be "in a private capacity, separate to his work at University of Cambridge." A person familiar with Kogan's work says he had a grant that allowed him to do minimal teaching in 2017 and 2018, without specifying the source or nature of the award. In 2015, Kogan and his new wife decided to change their last name to something that reflected their belief in both religion and science, and they settled on Spectre, six months before the James Bond film of the same name came out, and long before Russian election meddling dominated the news. A person close to Kogan said the name change had nothing to do with the controversy surrounding his work. "What person would change their name to a Bond villain," the person said, "to avoid bad press?" 


[w515]'It might work too well': the dark art of political advertising online 'It might work too well': the dark art of political advertising online  'It might work too well': the dark art of political advertising online         Some of the Facebook ads linked to a Russian effort to disrupt the US political process and stir up tensions around divisive social issues, released by the House intelligence committee. Photograph: Jon Elswick/AP lan Gould was hitting a wall. It was the late 1990s, and the political advertising operative had an idea about using a relatively newfangled tool – banner ads on web sites – to promote political candidates. “It was pretty clear to me at the time that the ability to target and tailor messaging was perfect for political campaigns,” Gould recalled recently. “I did a whole presentation on the internet and the power to connect, track, do fundraising, target.” But when Gould finished his pitches, he would be met with blank stares. “I was a very lonely pied piper,” he says. Finally, in 1998, Gould found a political candidate who was so far behind in the polls, and so strapped for cash, that he was willing to take a risk and spend $100,000 on banner ads on the New York Times homepage. Peter Vallone, then a New York City council member challenging George Pataki for the governorship, gave Gould the green light for an ad buy that has since entered the history books as the first significant use of online advertising in a political campaign. ‘I made Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare tool’: meet the data war whistleblower Read more The ads themselves are lost to internet history – Gould believes he may have copies somewhere on floppy discs. But it’s not hard to draw a line from that moment to Robert Mueller’s 16 February indictment of the Internet Research Agency, which alleges that Russian agents carried out a conspiracy to interfere with a US presidential election, in large part by purchasing targeted Facebook ads designed to “encourage US minority groups not to vote”. Or to the news recently revealed in the Observer that 50m Facebook profiles were obtained and misused by data mining company Cambridge Analytica to target voters during the 2016 presidential election. Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer The Vallone ads contained rudimentary versions of many of the attributes that make digital advertising such a powerful – and terrifying – force today: the ability to target specific audiences with tailored messages, then track their reaction. “Come November 2000, I expect the question will no longer be whether web-based political advertising works,” wrote Cyrus Krohn, then the manager of political advertising for the Microsoft Network, in a prescient 1999 column for Slate , “but whether it works too well.” Nearly 20 years later, the world has caught up to Krohn’s concerns, with some critics making the not entirely hyperbolic argument that micro-targeted “dark advertising” on Facebook is a fundamental threat to democracy itself. Is it too late for democracy to fix itself? Game-changing In February, Donald Trump named Brad Parscale as his 2020 re-election campaign manager. The decision lends credence to what Parscale has been saying for the past year : that his Facebook advertising operation won Trump the election.      Brad Parscale, the digital media director of Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign, has been hired to lead his 2020 presidential re-election campaign. Photograph: Drew Angerer/Getty Images Parscale had been a little-known digital marketing executive working out of Texas when he was tapped to build Trump’s campaign website in 2015. Until then, digital advertising was barely a rounding error in campaign budgets. In 2008, the year Barack Obama became the first social media candidate, candidates spent just $22.25m on online political ads, according to an analysis by Borrell Associates. That number grew significantly in 2012, but the real explosion came in 2016, when campaigns pumped $1.4bn into digital ads. US presidential campaigns are often remembered – and understood – by their advertisements. Lyndon B Johnson’s “ Daisy ” ad powerfully (and controversially) set the stakes of an election in a nuclear world. George HW Bush’s “ Willie Horton ” attack ad still epitomizes the racist dog-whistle politics of the tough-on-crime era. The message, as much as the messenger, is a key part of the debate over who is best equipped to lead the country. But no such public debate took place around Trump’s apparently game-changing digital political advertisements before election day. This is partly due to a loophole in the prevailing campaign finance law, which was written in 2002 and did not include internet ads in the class of regulated “electioneering communications”. But perhaps even more important is the very nature of online advertising, which is self-serve (just sign up with a credit card and go) and highly iterative. Parscale claims he typically ran 50,000 to 60,000 variations of Facebook ads each day during the Trump campaign, all targeting different segments of the electorate. Understanding the meaning of a single one of those ads would require knowing what the ad actually said, who the campaign targeted to see that ad, and how that audience responded. Multiply that by 100 and you have a headache; by 50,000 and you’ll start to doubt your grasp on reality. Then remember that this is 50,000 a day over the course of a campaign that lasted more than a year. “The reason I said it might work too well,” Krohn said in a recent interview with the Guardian, “is that mass marketing went away and micro-targeting – nano-targeting – came to fruition.” Any candidate using Facebook can put a campaign message promising one thing in front of one group of voters while simultaneously running an ad with a completely opposite message in front of a different group of voters. The ads themselves are not posted anywhere for the general public to see (this is what’s known as “dark advertising”), and chances are, no one will ever be the wiser. Trump digital director says Facebook helped win the White House Read more That undermines the very idea of a “marketplace of ideas”, says Ann Ravel, a former member of the Federal Election Commission who has long advocated stricter regulations on digital campaigning. “The way to have a robust democracy is for people to hear all these ideas and make decisions and discuss,” Ravel said. “With microtargeting, that is not happening.” Parscale and his staff told reporters with Bloomberg that they used Facebook ads to target Hillary Clinton supporters with messages designed to make them sit the election out, including her own forays into dog-whistle politics from the 1990s, which the Trump campaign hoped would discourage black voters from turning out to the polls. That degree of political manipulation might be unsavory, but it’s also relatively old-fashioned. One digital campaign staffer (not affiliated with the Trump campaign) compared it to Richard Nixon’s Southern Strategy, only “technologically savvy”. But new reporting by the Observer has revealed that the data analytics team that worked for Trump, Cambridge Analytica, went far beyond Nixonian dirty tricks. The firm obtained Facebook data harvested under the auspices of an academic study, the Observer has revealed, and then used that data to target millions of US voters based on their psychological weaknesses. “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles,” whistleblower Christopher Wylie told the Observer about the data theft, “and built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons.” European elections Political advertising in the US is the wild west compared with other western democracies, which tend to have shorter election campaigns with strict regulations on the amount and type of spending permitted. Such rules may enhance the impact of digital advertising, which is much cheaper than television and largely unregulated. The UK has seen a rapid shift to digital campaigning following the Conservative party’s embrace of Facebook in the 2015 general election. The Tories outspent Labour by a factor of 10 on Facebook advertisements, a decision that many political observers saw as decisive. In a country that bans political ads on television, Facebook enabled the Conservatives to reach 80.65% of users in targeted constituencies with its promoted posts and video ads, according to marketing materials created by Facebook. (At some point in the past year, the company began hiding previously produced “Success Stories” about its ability to sway election results.) The Vote Leave campaign in the 2016 Brexit referendum went on to spend almost its entire budget on Facebook advertising, an investment that resulted in about 1bn targeted digital ads being served to voters over the course of a 10-week campaign. Though it is impossible to parse the exact impact of Facebook advertisements amid all the other factors that shape an electoral result (including organic Facebook content), the platform is increasingly cited as a factor in the growing electoral might of far-right groups in Europe.      Supporters of the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) political party demonstrate outside the Chancellery in Berlin last week. Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty Images The radical right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) party reportedly worked with a US campaign consultancy and Facebook itself to target German voters susceptible to its anti-immigrant message during the 2017 election in which AfD surged in popularity to become the third-largest party in parliament. Campaigning in Italy’s recent election, which saw the rise of anti-establishment parties, including the populist Five Star Movement and the far-right League, largely took place on social media . Facebook advertisements and targeting information gathered by Italian transparency group Openpolis found that the neo-fascist Brothers of Italy party ran a Facebook ad targeting Italian adults who are interested in the paramilitary police force, the carabinieri. After the polls closed in Italy, the League’s Matteo Salvini shared some words of gratitude with the press: “Thank God for the internet. Thank God for social media. Thank God for Facebook.” Targeting the midterms While investigations into the 2016 US election and Brexit referendum continue, it’s worth remembering that more elections are fast approaching. Scores of countries will hold national elections in 2018, including Sweden, Ireland, Egypt, Mexico and Brazil. In the US, candidates for the 435 congressional and 35 Senate seats that are up for grabs in November are already running campaigns on Facebook, and we may never know what they’re saying in those advertisements. Take, for example, Paul Nehlen, a candidate who is running a Republican primary challenge against the speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, in Wisconsin. Nehlen is primarily known as a vehement antisemite who was once embraced by Steve Bannon and the Breitbart wing of the right, but was excommunicated after appearing on a white supremacist podcast . They’ve built this incredibly powerful platform that allows very narrow targeting ... so that scares me Alan Mislove, professor According to his FEC filings, Nehlen spent at least $2,791.72 on Facebook ads in the final six months of 2017. What did that money buy? In the first instance, everything that any Facebook advertiser can get: access to one of the most powerful databases of personal information that has ever existed, with insights into individuals’ intimate relationships, political beliefs, consumer habits and internet browsing. Beyond that, we don’t know. Nehlen could be using Facebook to target likely voters in his district with a message about infrastructure. Or he could have taken a list of his own core supporters (he has more than 40,000 likes on Facebook), used Facebook’s “lookalike audience” tool to find other people inclined to support his particular politics, then fed them ads designed to persuade more people to join him in hating Jews. Last fall, after Facebook had been forced to admit that, despite its initial denials, its platform had been used by foreign agents seeking to illegally influence the election, the company announced a set of reforms designed to assuage its critics – and stave off actual, enforceable regulation.      Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook has taken steps to achieve ‘an even higher standard of transparency’. Photograph: Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images Starting this summer, the platform has promised that every political ad will be linked back to the page that paid for it. The pages themselves will display every ad that they’re running, as well as demographic information about the audience that they are reaching, a measure that Mark Zuckerberg claimed would “bring Facebook to an even higher standard of transparency” than the law requires for television or other media. A version of these reforms is already live in Canada, where users can see all the ads being run by a political candidate in a designated tab on their page. But there is good reason to be skeptical. Since 2014, Facebook has had a transparency tool for all ads served on the platform. Click on the upper right-hand corner of a Facebook ad and you’ll see an option reading “Why am I seeing this ad?” Click through and you’ll get an explanation of the characteristics that make you desirable to the advertiser. So far so good, but a new study by computer scientists found that Facebook’s ad explanations were “often incomplete and sometimes misleading” in a way that “may allow malicious advertisers to easily obfuscate ad explanations that are discriminatory or that target privacy-sensitive attributes”. Alan Mislove, a professor of computer science at Northeastern University and one of the study’s co-authors, said that he gave Facebook credit for having the feature at all, noting that it is one of the only examples of a company offering any kind of explanation of how an algorithm actually works. But the findings do not paint a particularly pretty picture of Facebook’s ability to self-regulate. “They’ve built this incredibly powerful platform that allows very narrow targeting, a very powerful tool that anyone on the internet can use, so that scares me,” Mislove said. “And up until very recently, there was very little accountability. You as a malicious actor on Facebook don’t even really need to obfuscate your behavior, because the only person watching is Facebook.” Honest Ads Act The best hope for bringing some order to the realm of digital political ads is through updating US law for the Facebook era. A bipartisan proposal to do just that exists. In October, Senators Amy Klobuchar, Mark Warner and John McCain introduced the Honest Ads Act, which would close the loophole that allows internet ads to avoid regulation, and also require internet platforms (ie Facebook and Google) to maintain a public file of all the political ads they run and who paid for them.      Senators Amy Klobuchar and Mark Warner introduce the Honest Ads Act at a news conference on Capitol Hill on 19 October 2017. Photograph: Michael Reynolds/EPA But as much as we need transparency around political ads to maintain democracy, we also need a functioning democracy to get that transparency. And it’s not clear that it’s not already too late. “In an ideal world, with a fully functioning Congress, there would be hearings around the Honest Ads Act, and you would have Facebook and Google and Twitter and experts testify to shine a light on the nature of political advertising,” said Brendan Fischer, director of FEC reform at the Campaign Legal Center. “We’re not close to that at all.” In the absence of a fully functioning Congress, what is to be done? Should we expect Facebook to simply stop selling political ads? Antonio Garcia Martinez, a former product manager for Facebook who helped develop its advertising tools says that he has come to realize that political ads are simply a different beast than commercial ones, which can and should be treated differently by his former employer. “Selling shoes needs to be different than selling politicians, even though the mechanics of it are identical,” he said. “Morally it’s different.” Or should we pressure Facebook to stop allowing candidates with hateful or extremist views to use its tools? “If we farm these important democratic responsibilities out to a private company, today they might be regulating antisemitism, but tomorrow they’re regulating what people can say about the Honest Ads Act,” Fischer said. Indeed, Facebook could already be suppressing political views unfavorable to its business practices, and we would have no way of knowing. It’s possible Facebook wouldn’t even know. In response to queries about inconsistent moderation of clothing advertisements, a Facebook spokeswoman recently told the New York Times that “the company could not ask an automated system about [its] decisions”. Frankenstein’s monster is not under any human’s control. No one can pretend Facebook is just harmless fun any more | Ellie Mae O’Hagan Read more If this all seems positively dystopian, one person who is surprisingly sanguine is Alan Gould. Gould left politics soon after the Vallone campaign, founded an advertising analytics firm, sold it, and is now a tech investor. He does have concerns about media literacy and Facebook’s tendency to trap people in filter bubbles, but says: “If people choose to stay in that bubble and not explore anything outside of it, that’s a statement about who they are and not about the technology. “If you’re going to have a representative democracy, then you have to have a way to communicate with the voters and you’re going to use whatever is available, whether that’s newspapers or mail or email or Snapchat,” he said. “I don’t regret it at all.”  

[w516] How one researcher harvested data from 50 million people — and Facebook was designed to help How one researcher harvested data from 50 million people — and Facebook was designed to help Cambridge Analytica used the data to build detailed profiles on voters in the run-up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the U.K.'s Brexit campaign. Cambridge Analytica used the data to build voter profiles for U.S. and U.K political ad campaigns CBC News Posted: Mar 19, 2018 7:20 PM ET | Last Updated: April 19 Matthew Braga Senior Technology Reporter Matthew Braga is the senior technology reporter for CBC News, where he covers about how data is collected, used, and shared. If you have a tip, you can contact this reporter securely using Signal or WhatsApp at +1 416 316 4872, or via email at matthew.braga@cbc.ca. For particularly sensitive messages or documents, consider using Secure Drop, an anonymous, confidential system for sharing encrypted information with CBC News. Twitter SecureDrop CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Meet Trump backer Robert Mercer, the man behind Cambridge Analytica Facebook whistleblower pushed data-mining boundaries in Canada: source Canadian whistleblower on why he exposed 'problematic' Facebook data misuse by Trump consulting firm Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak Facebook suspends data analytics firm that worked for Trump campaign Facebook shares fall as EU, U.S. urge probes of data practices 


[w517]    Facebook data-mining scandal uncovers whistleblower’s connection to B.C. WATCH: The man at the centre of a scandal involving the exploitation of private information from millions of Facebook users – allegedly to benefit U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign – is from B.C.


[w518]    Facebook data scandal: How could likes profile voters for manipulation? Facebook data scandal: How could likes profile voters for manipulation? Post Author Credit  WATCH: A new undercover video has led to the suspension of Cambridge Analytica's CEO. As well, a Canadian woman will investigate the breach in Britain. Jeff Semple reports.

[w519] 

[w520]  		The U.K. firm that took ‘fake news to the next level’ using private information from 50M Facebook profiles The U.K. firm that took 'fake news to the next level' using private information from 50M Facebook profiles Cambridge Analytica faced more controversy Monday after senior executives were filmed saying they could entrap politicians with bribes and Ukrainian prostitutes .The Canadian who blew the whistle on an alleged propaganda scheme using a data mining breach at Facebook says it “took fake news to the next level.” Christopher Wylie said the data from Facebook — gleaned from 50 million people without their knowledge — was then used to change people’s perceptions. “I feel a sense of regret every day when I see where they have helped take our world,” said Wylie, from British Columbia. U.S. and British lawmakers are demanding that Facebook explain how the political data firm Cambridge Analytica was able to harvest private information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles without the social network’s alerting users. Canada’s privacy commissioner is also demanding to know whether any Canadians had personal information compromised. The furore caused Facebook to lose US$36 billion in value Monday with CEO Mark Zuckerberg suffering a US$4.9 billion personal lose and a drop from the world’s fourth-richest man to fifth. Cambridge Analytica was used by Donald Trump in his successful 2016 presidential campaign. The U.K. company earned US$5.9 million in 2016 from the Trump campaign, according to data from the Federal Election Commission. Cambridge has been largely funded by Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor, and Steve Bannon, a former adviser to the president. Wylie, a Cambridge co-founder who left in 2014, said he did not know to what extent Trump’s campaign used the techniques, but he said Trump’s former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, was meeting with Cambridge Analytica in 2015, before Trump even announced his run for office. Cambridge Analytica is also under scrutiny for its propaganda practises and how it used the Facebook data. Britain’s information commissioner says she will apply for a warrant to access the servers of the company. Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said the firm had been “unco-operative” in her investigation of whether Facebook data was “illegally acquired and used.” The firm faced more controversy Monday after senior executives were filmed saying they could entrap politicians with bribes and Ukrainian prostitutes. In an undercover investigation filmed by Britain’s Channel 4 News, Alexander Nix, the firm’s chief executive officer, claimed the company had worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India and Argentina. Politicians could be bribed or compromised by sending “some girls around to the candidates house.” Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well,” said Nix on the video recording. In the investigation, Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, said Cambridge Analytica could then discreetly push the compromising material onto social media and the internet. “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control,” said Turnbull. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told Channel 4 News, “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” Nix told BBC’s Newsnight, “A lot of the allegations that have been put to Cambridge are entirely unfounded and extremely unfair.” But U.K. Culture Secretary Matt Hancock was met with cheers in Parliament when he said that the “Wild West” days of “digital companies who flout rules and think that the best thing to do is to move fast and break things without respect for the impact that has on democracy and on society” were over. In a statement Sunday, Wylie, 28, described himself as “a curious and naive 23-year-old,” when he first went to work for Analytica. It was his information about the firm’s methods that were used by The New York Times and Britain’s Observer to alert the world to the Facebook breach over the weekend. “I do feel responsible for it and it’s something that I regret,” Wylie says in a video interview posted on The Observer’s web page. “It was a grossly unethical experiment because you are playing with an entire country, the psychology of an entire country, without their consent or awareness.” ‘A grossly unethical experiment’: Canadian whistleblower at centre of Facebook data breach scandal Facebook’s Zuckerberg comes under fire from U.K., US lawmakers Trump-linked data analysis firm taps 50M Facebook profiles In an interview Monday on NBC’s Today Wylie said Cambridge Analytica secured personal data in order to learn about individuals and then used it to create an information cocoon to change their perceptions. “This is based on an idea called ’informational dominance,’ which is the idea that if you can capture every channel of information around a person and then inject content around them, you can change their perception of what’s actually happening,” Wylie said. “This is a company that really took fake news to the next level.” “It’s a full-service propaganda machine,“ he said of Cambridge Analytica. On Saturday, Trump’s campaign denied using the firm’s data, saying it relied on the Republican National Committee for its information. In a statement Monday, Cambridge Analytica “strongly denied” the allegations that it had improperly obtained Facebook data. It also denied that the Facebook data was used by the Trump campaign. Facebook has denied the data collection was a breach because people knowingly provided their information. The company has said University of Cambridge psychology professor Aleksandr Kogan accessed the information after he requested it from users who gave their consent when they chose to sign up for a test via a new Facebook app. I feel a sense of regret every day when I see where they have helped take our world Kogan ultimately provided more than 50 million raw profiles to Cambridge Analytica, said Wylie. Facebook said it had hired a digital forensics firm to conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica to determine if the Facebook data the company collected still existed or if it had been destroyed. Meanwhile, The Canadian Press reported Monday that years ago, Wylie worked in the office of former Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff. Wylie had already begun to develop strategies on how politicians could capitalize on data collected through social media, said a former senior Liberal insider who spoke on condition of anonymity. At the time, the idea was viewed as too invasive and raised concerns with the Liberals, who declined to have anything to do with it, the insider told CP. Wylie’s recommended data-collection approach spooked party officials to the point that it became an significant factor behind their decision not to renew his contract in 2009. “Let’s say he had boundary issues on data even back then,” said the insider, who noted that Wylie’s descriptions of his methods in media reports sounded familiar. “He effectively pitched an earlier version of exactly this to us back in 2009 and we said, ’No.”’

[w521] 

[w522]  


[w523] Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak Liberals enlist spy service as NDP asks privacy watchdog to look into Facebook's data leak The Liberal government is enlisting CSIS and the Communications Security Establishment to look into how secure online personal information is being secured as three federal NDP MPs ask Canada's privacy watchdog to investigate Facebook amid concerns the social media giant is not properly securing the private data of Canadians. Trudeau tells House of Commons he will bring up issue at G7 summit in Quebec's Charlevoix region 


[w524]  US cops go all Minority Report: Google told to cough up info on anyone near a crime scene US cops go all Minority Report: Google told to cough up info on anyone near a crime scene Police cyber-hunt reveals massive gap in legal protections    By Kieren McCarthy in San Francisco  SHARE    Efforts to track down criminals in the US state of North Carolina have laid bare a dangerous gap in the law over the use of location data. Raleigh police went to court at least three times last year and got a warrant requiring Google to share the details of any users that were close to crime scenes during specific times and dates. The first crime was the murder of a cab driver in November 2016, the second an arson attack in March 2017 and the third, sexual battery , in August 2017 – suggesting that the police force is using the approach to discover potentially incriminating evidence for increasingly less serious crimes. In each case, the cops used GPS coordinates to draw a rough rectangle around the areas of interest – covering nearly 20 acres in the murder case – and asked for the details of any users that entered those areas in time periods of between 60 to 90 minutes e.g. between 1800 and 1930. The warrants were granted by a judge complete with an order to prevent disclosure so Google was legally prevented from informing impacted users that their details had been shared with law enforcement. Google complied with the warrants. It is worth noting that the data haul is not limited to users of Google hardware i.e. phones running Android but also any phone that ran Google apps – which encompasses everything from its driving app service to its calendar, browser, predictive keyboard and so on. Details are only now emerging as those disclosure orders expire, and local TV station WRAL has been digging through public records to see how often and for what these unusual orders have been used by the police. The approach raises a whole host of privacy concerns, not least because there seem to be no established rules or laws covering the release of such highly personal information. Although the police clearly feel they have carefully considered Fourth Amendment rights by limiting the size of the search by geography and time, and by asking for limited and anonymized data, the reality is that the police tend to have a much narrower definition of constitutional rights than citizens, particularly when it comes to investigating crimes. The Raleigh police are not the only police force using the fact that companies like Google store enormous quantities of personally identifiable data on millions of people in a hunt for clues. A spokesman told WRAL that it had began using the technique after they heard about cops in Orange Country using a similar approach to investigate a crime on their area. While it is understandable that the police would want to use any method at their disposal to solve crimes - some in favor have argued it is no different to getting a warrant for surveillance footage - the use of location data remains a controversial topic. Despite efforts to limit the dataset pulled from Google's servers, the requests will have included the details of dozens, potentially hundreds, of innocent people. The arson attack, for example, occurred at an apartment complex in a dense part of the city so the search – which covered anyone in a one block radius between 1930 and 2200 on a Thursday night – will have picked up a lot of ordinary folk doing nothing but going about their lives. We don't know how many people's details were handed over because neither Google nor the police will say. Likewise, we don't know whether the searches produced information that proved critical to the investigations that couldn't have been acquired through other means. For example, the man responsible for shooting and killing cab driver Nwabu Efobi in November 2016 was arrested and charged with murder in October 2017 after location data warrants were issued in March and returned in July. We don't know if those warrants put police on the trail of Tyron Cooper or whether there was other evidence or leads that led to them identifying him. We do know that it was footage from security cameras that led the police to ask for Google location data on the night before the shooting, as well as the night of the shooting itself. The concern is that the police will increasingly use the approach as a fishing expedition for potential leads – something that the courts have persistently ruled is not an acceptable or constitutional practice. The lack of notification to people whose movements are shared with law enforcement is also a serious concern. While there remain no clear laws on the use and provision of mobile phone data, it will fall to the individual judge to make a decision as to what is appropriate. Faced with successful warrant applications, it is also inevitable that police forces will use them more, and increasingly widely, since they will be following lawful process and potentially gathering useful information. But it is fair to say that the billions of users of mobile phones do not imagine the police will be in a position to track their movements simply because they were close to where a crime was committed. Despite tech-savvy individuals understanding that phones theoretically allow for such tracking, it is only a matter of time until something like Cambridge Analytica's gathering and misuse of Facebook user data happens with respect to location data. It is worth noting that Google is only able to provide GPS coordinates if you allow your phone – or Google app – to use your location. At least in theory .

[w525]  Facebook value drops by $37bn amid privacy backlash - BBC News Facebook's shares have fallen sharply, wiping $37bn off the firm's value, as it faces questions from US and UK politicians about its privacy rules. The social network is under fire after reports on how Cambridge Analytica, which some believe helped Donald Trump win the US election, acquired and used Facebook's customer information. Theresa May's spokesman called the allegations "very concerning". The UK data protection body is seeking a warrant to search the firm's offices. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham says it will be used to look at the databases and servers used by British data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook shares ended trading 6.7% lower at $172.56, wiping almost $37bn off the social network's market value. The company is accused of failing to properly inform users that their profile information may have been obtained and kept by Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm. "The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook's data practices, and the picture is not pretty," said Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor. Warrant sought for Cambridge Analytica Zuckerberg pressed to face breach concerns Facebook data sharing - time to act? Firm suspended On Friday, Facebook suspended the consulting firm, saying it had acquired data from a researcher who violated the firm's policies. Cambridge Analytica "strongly denies" the allegations levelled against it. Asked about the reports, the prime minister's spokesman said: "The allegations are clearly very concerning. "It is essential that people can have confidence that their personal data will be protected and used in an appropriate way." US senators Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat, and John Kennedy, a Republican, have also called for a hearing about data security and said they want to question Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, and the heads of other tech companies. "While Facebook has pledged to enforce its policies to protect people's information, questions remain as to whether those policies are sufficient and whether Congress should take action to protect people's private information," they wrote in the letter. "The lack of oversight on how data is stored and how political advertisements are sold raises concerns about the integrity of American elections as well as privacy rights." Alexander Nix, chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, was questioned by a Parliamentary committee last month about using data to target messages. 

[w526]  BOOM! Cambridge Analytica explodes following extraordinary TV expose By Kieren McCarthy in San Francisco  SHARE    Updated Controversial data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica has been hit with an emergency data seizure order in England following an extraordinary series of events Monday night that revolved around a TV undercover expose. Following a day in which the company became the focus of attention online , in print, and in the UK Parliament and US Congress for its unethical use of user data, senior executives from the firm were then shown on camera boasting about the use of dark methods, including honey traps, fake news and sub-contracting with ex-spies to entrap individuals. Those revelations – filmed during an undercover investigation by Channel 4 in the UK – came as the controversial company was already in the news after it was revealed it had secretly grabbed the personal details of over 50 million Facebook users and used the data to sell voter targeting services. The whole segment can be seen here: Youtube Video Following the segment on those secret recordings, UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said she would seek a warrant on Tuesday forcing Cambridge Analytica to hand over relevant data, after she said the company had refused to respond sufficiently to earlier requests. Adding to a sense of drama, as Denham was on television saying she would apply for the warrant, a Channel 4 reporter posted outside the company's headquarters reported that a team from Facebook was inside the building ensuring that their purloined data had been deleted. That series of events sparked one senior politician, live on air, to outline his concern that the company could be deleting incriminating data as they were talking. Soon after, other journalists and politicians expressed their dismay at the two-day lead-time that a company that has just been shown to be unscrupulous and may have committed criminal acts was being given to delete any evidence of wrongdoing. Less than an hour after the program aired, the authorities announced they had received a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's offices that very night. As to the undercover investigation, Channel 4's reporters posed as Sri Lankan clients interested in paying the company to help their candidates in upcoming elections. Over the course of a series of meetings in London a series of senior executives outlined an increasingly disturbing array of services they would be willing to provide. At an initial meeting with its managing director Mark Turnbull and chief data officer Dr Alex Tayler the pair talked about their infamous data analytics and profiling services as a way to identify potential swing voters. But Turnbull also suggested that the company could provide "intelligence gathering" through "relationships and partnerships we have with specialist organizations", and said the company could provide information on a political opposition's secrets and strategies. Such shadowy tactics were again offered at a subsequent meeting, with Turnbull saying Cambridge Analytica could "contract under a different name, or as a different entity" so no trace of the company's involvement could be found. He then appeared to prove that ability to hide in the shadows by discussing the company's work in Kenya. Despite publicly claiming that it had nothing to do with elections in Kenya, Turnbull was caught on tape boasting about the significant role the company had played. "We have rebranded the entire party twice, written their manifesto… messaging… just about every element of his campaign," he boasted. Turnbull stressed however that it was "not in the business of fake news, lying, making stuff up, not in the business of entrapment." That ethical line appeared to disappear however when the undercover journalists met with Cambridge Analytica's chief executive Alexander Nix. Nix was caught on film outlining a series of extremely dubious and many cases illegal scenarios for dealing with political opponents. They included bribing officials and candidates – "we can have a wealthy developer come in and offer a large amount of money to a candidate - for land, for example" - and film the transaction in order to expose them as corrupt. He also suggested that the company could arrange for a honey-trap – sending young women to operate a sex sting – while stressing that he was "just giving examples of what can be done, what has been done." He also appeared to embrace the idea of creating and promoting fake news – an extremely sensitive topic given the evidence that fake news was used extensively in the US presidential elections in 2016 – noting that "it doesn't have to be true, it just has to be believed." In response to what appeared to be clear evidence that Cambridge Analytica was prepared to carry out dirty tricks campaigns, the company said that its executives made the suggestions as a tactical ploy to see if the potential client was ethical. The company also claimed that it had "grave concerns" about the client, implying that it would not do business with him. But, as a member of the Channel 4 investigation team pointed out soon after, the company had been in contact with their team for months after the filming and had kept asking about their "impending partnership." The company said in a statement: "We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called 'honey-traps' for any purpose whatsoever," adding that it "routinely undertakes conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions." That explanation does not seem to be going down well with the authorities. As well as being accused of misleading a UK parliamentary select committee, there are now calls for Facebook and Cambridge Analytica to be hauled in front of committees in both UK Parliament and US Congress to explain their behavior. US Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) has sent a Facebook a list of questions [PDF] about its relationship with Cambridge Analytica and its policies, included a pointed reference to an agreement the social media giant reached with the FTC in 2011 over how it protected its users' privacy. ® Facebook has announced its auditors have stopped whatever they were doing in Cambridge Analytica's offices: Independent forensic auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytica’s London office this evening. At the request of the UK Information Commissioner’s Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down. Meanwhile, amid the privacy storm, Facebook's chief information security officer will leave the social networking giant by August, it is reported: NEW: Facebook's security officer @alexstamos is leaving the company amid disagreements with Facebook execs over how to address Russian interference. His team of 120 is down to 3 people:

[w527] 

[w528]  Cambridge Analytica: Warrant sought to inspect company  Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal Media playback is unsupported on your device Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica was filmed by undercover reporters for Channel 4 News The UK's Information Commissioner is to apply to court for a warrant to search the offices of London-based political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica. The company is accused of using the personal data of 50 million Facebook members to influence the US presidential election in 2016. Its executives have also been filmed by Channel 4 News suggesting it could use honey traps and potentially bribery to discredit politicians. The company denies any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has been summoned to give evidence about the company's links to Cambridge Analytica to a UK parliamentary committee. Damian Collins MP, who is leading the committee's inquiry into fake news, accused Facebook of giving answers "misleading to the committee" at a previous hearing which asked whether information had been taken without users' consent. Fresh allegations On Monday, Channel 4 News broadcast hidden camera footage in which Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix appears to suggest tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online. In the footage, asked what "deep digging" could be done, Mr Nix told an undercover reporter: "Oh, we do a lot more than that." He suggested one way to target an individual was to "offer them a deal that's too good to be true and make sure that's video recorded". He also said he could "send some girls around to the candidate's house..." adding that Ukrainian girls "are very beautiful, I find that works very well". Mr Nix continued: "I'm just giving you examples of what can be done and what has been done." Cambridge Analytica: The story so far Facebook data sharing - time to act? Channel 4 News said its reporter had posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get a political candidate elected in Sri Lanka. Media playback is unsupported on your device Former Cambridge Analytica employee Christopher Wylie says the firm planted fake news However, Cambridge Analytica said the report had "grossly misrepresented" the conversations caught on camera. "In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our 'client' from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios," the company said in a statement. "Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called 'honeytraps'," it said. Mr Nix told the BBC's Newsnight programme that he regarded the report as a "misrepresentation of the facts" and said he felt the firm had been "deliberately entrapped". On its website, Cambridge Analytica says it can provide data and insights to "drive your voters to the polls and win your campaign" and says it has played a "pivotal role" in winning US presidential races. Media playback is unsupported on your device Mr Nix spoke to BBC Newsnight before the Channel 4 report was aired on Monday night. He declined to be interviewed after the undercover footage was broadcast UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating the company over claims it used personal data to influence the US election. Christopher Wylie, who worked with the company, claimed it amassed the data of millions of people through a personality quiz on Facebook called This is Your Digital Life that was created by an academic. 'Back away' Ms Denham demanded access to the firm's databases and servers after it missed her Monday deadline. She said her office has been investigating political campaigning and the use of political data for many months - the allegations against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica were one strand of that work. She said she was looking at whether personal data was acquired in "an unauthorised way", whether there was sufficient consent to share the data, what was done to safeguard it and whether Facebook acted robustly when they found out about the loss of the data. She admitted she told Facebook to withdraw from its own search of Cambridge Analytica's offices, saying there were concerns it might damage the integrity of her investigation. "Our advice to Facebook was to back away - and they agreed," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Media playback is unsupported on your device Information Commissioner: We need to get in to Cambridge Analytica offices Labour's shadow digital economy minister Liam Byrne said Ms Denham's powers did not allow her to apply for a digital search warrant "quickly and quietly". Instead, she has "told the world she's going to court", giving Cambridge Analytica and others time to hide any evidence, he told the Today programme. Former attorney general Dominic Grieve said her legal powers were inadequate and this matter had highlighted a need for "greater powers and greater sanctions". Ms Denham said she was using all the powers she had under the law but would not know whether evidence had been tampered with until her team of forensic experts gained access to the offices. 'Violation' Cambridge Analytica insists it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data, but it was suspended from Facebook last week. Facebook, meanwhile, will hold an open meeting with its employees later to discuss the matter, tech news website The Verge is reporting. Facebook said it has hired its own digital forensic team to audit Cambridge Analytica to find out whether the Facebook data in question still exists. Facebook's value falls $37bn amid backlash Zuckerberg pressed to face breach concerns "If this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook's policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made." Facebook said Aleksandr Kogan, who created the personality app from which the data had been harvested, has agreed to be audited, but Mr Wylie - who made the claims about the way the data was gathered and used - has declined. How to protect your data on Facebook There are a few things to be aware of if you want to restrict who has access to your data. Keep an eye on apps, especially those which require you to log in using your Facebook account - they often have a very wide range of permissions and many are specifically designed to pick up your data Use an ad blocker to limit advertising Look at your Facebook security settings and make sure you are aware of what is enabled. Check the individual app settings to see whether you have given them permission to view your friends as well as yourself. You can download a copy of the data Facebook holds on you, although it is not comprehensive. There is a download button at the bottom of the General Account Settings tab. However bear in mind that your data may be less secure sitting on your laptop than it is on Facebook's servers, if your device is hacked. You can of course, simply leave Facebook, but the campaign group Privacy International warns that privacy concerns extend beyond the social network. "The current focus is on protecting your data being exploited by third parties, but your data is being exploited all the time," said a spokeswoman. "Many apps on your phone will have permission to access location data, your entire phone book and so on. It is just the tip of the iceberg." 

[w529] Cambridge Analytica bosses secretly filmed 'boasting of dirty tricks to manipulate elections'The company’s chief Alexander Nix, right, and managing director of CA Political Global Mark Turnbull, left, were filmed at a series of meetings last year   ES News Email  Enter your email address or register with your social account  I would like to receive lunchtime headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Continue Already have an account? Log in Ad Placements Start Senior executives at Cambridge Analytica were secretly filmed apparently boasting that they could entrap politicians in compromising positions with bribes and Ukranian sex workers, a new investigation has claimed. In an undercover investigation by Channel 4 News, senior executives from the British firm which credits itself with Donald Trump ’s presidential election victory, are filmed claiming they also used ex-spies to dig dirt on political opponents. It comes as the data company is embroiled in a scandal over allegations it harvested personal details from more than 50 million Facebook users. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman said the firm entirely refutes any allegation that it or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes or so-called “honey-traps”.  Mr Nix said the company has 'a long history of working behind the scenes' (Channel 4 News) In the Channel 4 News investigation broadcast on Monday, the company’s chief Alexander Nix was filmed saying the British firm has “a long history of working behind the scenes”, and suggested the company could go incognito by setting up fake IDs and websites. He was also recorded saying the firm operates using sub-contractors from Britain and Israel. The admissions were filmed at a series of meetings at London hotels over four months, between November 2017 and January 2018, where an undercover reporter for Channel 4 News posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. Channel 4 claimed the executives boasted in the meetings that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL) had worked in more than two hundred elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India and Argentina. January 2018, at the Berkeley Hotel:   Reporter: “It has to be the deep digging and what we want to know is what is the expertise of the deep digging that you can do to make sure that the people know the true identity and secrets of the people? Mr Nix: “Oh, we do a lot more than that. I mean deep digging is interesting but you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true, and make sure that that’s video recorded, you know, these sorts of tactics are very effective instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things.” Reporter: “And the operative you will use for this is who?” Mr Nix: “Well someone known to us.” Reporter: “OK so it is somebody, you won’t use a Sri Lankan person no because there’s issue.” Mr Nix: “No. No, no, we’ll have a wealthy developer come in, somebody posing as a wealthy developer.” Mr Turnbull: “I’m a master of disguise.” Mr Nix: “Yes.  They will offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, we’ll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet.” Reporter: “So on Facebook or YouTube, or something like this?” In one filmed discussion about digging up material on political opponents, Mr Nix said they could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house”, adding that Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well”. In another he said: “We’ll offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, we’ll have the whole thing recorded, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the Internet.” Offering bribes to public officials is an offence under both the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cambridge Analytica operates in the UK and is registered in the United States. The meetings also included Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, and the company’s chief data officer, Dr Alex Tayler.  Dr Alex , the company's chief data officer, right, was also present at some of the meetings (Channel 4 News) Mr Turnbull was filmed describing how the company has “relationships and partnerships with specialist organisations” to gather dirt on the opposition. In one meeting he said: “... we just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control. It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘that’s propaganda’, because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda’, the next question is, ‘who’s put that out?’”. The firm was recently suspended from the social network site Facebook amid claims it passed personal data from Facebook apps without the consent of the individuals. Whistleblower Chris Wylie, a former research director at Cambridge Analytica, told Channel 4 News a so-called data grab had been carried out on more than 50 million profiles in 2014. January 2018 at the Berkeley Hotel:   Mr Nix: “Send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things.” ... Reporter: “For example you’re saying when you’re using the girls to introduce to the local fellow and you’re using the girls for this, like the seduction, they’re not local girls?  Not Sri Lankan girls?” Mr Nix: “I wouldn’t have thought so no, we’ll bring some, I mean it was just an idea, I’m just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know, you know what I’m saying.” Reporter: “They are very beautiful Ukrainian girls.” Mr Nix: “They are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” … Mr Nix: “And the answers are hypothetical and that’s really important is, is please don’t pay too much attention to what I’m saying because I’m just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done.  The right solution will be made for the right, for your problem.” Reports in The Observer suggested that the information was used to target political advertising in the 2016 US presidential election. Cambridge Analytica played a key role in mapping out the behaviour of voters in the run-up to the 2016 US election and was also used during the EU referendum campaign earlier that year. On Monday, the UK's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham confirmed she will apply for a warrant to search computers and servers used by the firm to examine its activities. It comes amid concerns at Westminster over the firm's activities.  Prime Minister Theresa May's official spokesman called on Facebook and Cambridge Analytica to co-operate fully with the investigation by the data watchdog into the alleged use of data from users of the social media giant.  Facebook suspends London firm over alleged mass data harvesting Tonight, a Cambridge Analytica spokesman said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called “honey-traps” for any purpose whatsoever…” They said: “Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose.” And they insisted that opposition research and intelligence gathering, the use of subcontractors, working discreetly with clients and the use of encrypted communications are all common practice and legitimate. The clips form Part Two of Channel 4 News’ series called ‘Data, Democracy and Dirty Tricks’. Part One featured an exclusive television interview with Mr Wylie, who revealed the company was set up at the instigation of former Breitbart executive director Steve Bannon with the financial backing of billionaire Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah. 

[w531] Cambridge Analytica bragged about using fake news, bribes, and Ukrainian women to influence elections – VICE Cambridge Analytica bragged about using fake news, bribes, and Ukrainian women to influence elections By David Gilbert Mar 19, 2018 An undercover sting by Channel 4 News has revealed that executives from Cambridge Analytica boasted that they could entrap politicians with Ukrainian sex workers, offer bribes to public officials, and use former spies to dig dirt on political opponents. The report reveals CEO Alexander Nix and other Cambridge Analytica executives admitting to using a range of underhanded tactics in order to sway the outcome of more than 200 elections around the globe, secretly campaigning through a web of shadowy front companies and sub-contractors. Channel 4’s reporter posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka, meeting the company’s executives five times over the course of three months. On Monday, a Cambridge Analytica spokesperson said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” But that's not exactly what Cambridge Analytica executives said on camera: Read more An undercover sting by Channel 4 News has revealed that executives from Cambridge Analytica boasted that they could entrap politicians with Ukrainian sex workers, offer bribes to public officials, and use former spies to dig dirt on political opponents. The report reveals CEO Alexander Nix and other Cambridge Analytica executives admitting to using a range of underhanded tactics in order to sway the outcome of more than 200 elections around the globe, secretly campaigning through a web of shadowy front companies and sub-contractors. Channel 4’s reporter posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka, meeting the company’s executives five times over the course of three months. On Monday, a Cambridge Analytica spokesperson said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever.” But that's not exactly what Cambridge Analytica executives said on camera: Send in the girls One of the most stunning revelations by Nix was his willingness to use sex workers to gather dirt on a clients’ opponents, and use the information to discredit them online. When asked about digging up material on political opponents, Nix said they could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things” adding that Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” Read: 12 Cambridge Analytica employees were embedded in the Trump campaign Nix suggests that it would be better not to use Sri Lankan girls in the operation, but bring Ukranian girls with them. “I mean it was just an idea, I’m just saying, we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us you know, you know what I’m saying,” he said. Blackmail Another possibility suggested by Nix involves setting a victim up and leveraging the incriminating evidence to remove an opponent from the campaign. “We’ll offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance, we’ll have the whole thing recorded, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet," he said. In an ironic twist Nix even suggests that one of the most effective ways of undermining your enemies is to secretly film them admitting to corruption. “[What is] equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true, and make sure that that’s video recorded, you know, these sorts of tactics are very effective instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things.” “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow” Offering bribes to public officials is an offense under both the U.K. Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cambridge Analytica operates in the U.K. and is registered in the U.S. Bloodstream of the internet While the practices Nix describes are relatively crude in their approach, the company also offered much more subtle approaches, which left no trace but were just as effective. Mark Turnbull, managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division told the reporter "we just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again … like a remote control.” Turnbull added that this “has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘that’s propaganda’ because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda,’ the next question is, ‘who’s put that out?’” He later adds: “So we have to be very subtle, and we’ve got time to do this.” Shadow operations Despite being widely known about, the reach of Cambridge Analytica’s operations were not fully understood until now, given that they boast of impacting more than 200 elections around the world. The reason is that the company uses an extensive range of tactics to hide their fingerprints on any operation they conduct. “So often we set up, if we are working then we can set up fake IDs and websites, we can be students doing research projects attached to a university, we can be tourists, there are so many options we can look at. I have lots of experience in this,” Nix said. Turnbull added at a separate meeting that operations are run “so that no record exists with our name attached to this at all, and I think we can work in that space as well.” Intelligence gathering When the reporter asks if Cambridge Analytica offers intelligence gathering services, Turnbull says the company has “partnerships with specialist organizations that do that kind of, that do that kind of work. So that, you can, you know who the opposition is, you know their secrets, you know their tactics.” At another meeting, Turnbull says the people who they work with at ex-MI5 operatives who work with “private organizations whose job is to gather research. “They will find all the skeletons in his closet quietly, discreetly, and give you a report,” he said. Contradiction Turnbull appears to have contradicted himself about the scope of the operation Cambridge Analytica offers to their clients. In a December meeting with the reporter, Turnbull says: “So we’re not in the business of fake news, we’re not in the business of lying, making stuff up, and we’re not in the business of entrapment, so we wouldn’t, we wouldn’t send a pretty girl out to seduce a politician and then film them in their bedroom and then release the film. There are companies that do this but to me that crosses a line.” Yet a month later he was present when Nix laid out the possibility of using prostitutes to entrap local officials as well as offering bribe. In the January meeting he proclaims: “I’m a master of disguise” when referring to the possibility of having someone pose as a wealthy developer.  


[w532]  Cambridge Analytica’s CEO was caught by Channel 4 offering to meddle in elections using sex workers and bribes. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica Was Caught on Video Offering to Meddle in Elections Using Sex Workers and Fake Bribes By       A screenshot from the Channel 4 video with Alex Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, his colleagues, and an undercover reporter. Channel 4 screenshot  Cambridge Analytica, the political-data firm hired by the Trump campaign that’s been implicated in a scandal involving the illegitimate harvesting of more than 50 million Facebook user profiles, did not improve its public standing Monday. That’s because Britain’s Channel 4 posted a video showing Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix describing a series of salacious and corrupt tactics for hire to a reporter pretending to be a fixer for a client who wanted to influence elections in Sri Lanka.   When asked about digging up opposition research on another candidate, Nix reportedly offered to “send some girls around to the candidate’s house,” specifically Ukrainian girls, whom Nix said “are very beautiful, I find that works very well.” That wasn’t the only staged scandal Nix offered to set up for the prospective client. “We’ll offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance,” he told the reporter. “We’ll have the whole thing recorded; we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet.”   In the video, Nix is joined by his colleagues Max Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global (an arm of Cambridge Analytica), and the company’s chief data officer, Alex Tayler. They described working on more than 200 elections, often “in the shadows,” as Nix put it in one exchange. The team then went into detail about how the incendiary information they collect and sometimes stage is then weaponized in a political campaign.   “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again … like a remote control,” said Turnbull. “It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘That’s propaganda,’ because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda,’ the next question is, ‘Who’s put that out?’ ” The undercover investigation occurred between November 2017 and January 2018, according to Channel 4.  Watch the video from Channel 4 of their reporter meeting with officials from Cambridge Analytica:    This news comes days after Facebook shared that it had suspended the account of Cambridge Analytica, as well as the account a Russian-American psychology professor at the University of Cambridge named Aleksandr Kogan, who was contracted by Cambridge Analytica to build a Facebook personality survey app called “thisisyourdigitiallife” that was used to mine the personal information of the roughly 270,000 respondents who took the quiz. At the time, Facebook’s developer policies allowed app-makers to collect user data not just from those who gave permission to app to do so but also from their friends. And people on Facebook may have hundreds or even thousands of friends, which was likely how Cambridge Analytica was able to reportedly collect data on about 50 million Facebook users.  Facebook says that although it permitted the data collection at the time, Kogan wasn’t permitted to share the data he harvested with Cambridge Analytica and sent a request to Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to destroy the wrongfully shared user data back in 2015. Although the social media company says it got confirmation of the deletions, it recently learned that didn’t actually happen. The New York Times reports its journalists saw a portion of the data that at least recently still existed.   Cambridge Analytica claims on its website that it’s able create psychological profiles to “effectively engage and persuade voters using specially tailored language and visual ad combinations” that appeal to each person on an emotional level,” and that the company has “up to 5,000 data points on over 230 million American voters.” It’s not clear where, besides Facebook, the company gets its voter data.  Facebook knew about Cambridge Analytica’s holding of targeted user data back in 2015, when the Guardian reported that the then-presidential contender Ted Cruz, who was a client of Cambridge Analytica, was targeting voters using data harvested from tens of millions of Facebook users without their knowledge with the data firm’s help. Facebook confirmed in August 2016 that data from Kogan’s app collected and misused data from the company and that Facebook was taking efforts to delete it. Still, Facebook didn’t alert Facebook users, and now the company actually employs one of Kogan’s associates, Joseph Chancellor, who worked with the Cambridge professor to start Global Science Research, the company that Kogan used to contract with Cambridge Analytica.  Politicians from both sides of the aisle now are calling for Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify to Congress about his company’s data-collection practices and how Russian operatives, as well as U.S. candidates’ campaign operatives, instrumentalized the platform and wrongfully collected user data from Facebook to manipulate voters.  And now, with footage of Cambridge Analytica’s CEO describing shady, potentially illegal tactics, in other political campaigns, anyone with even the loosest ties to the company’s work should brace for more scrutiny, too.


[w533] The murky world of Cambridge Analytica  The murky world of Cambridge Analytica Tuesday: Investigation reveals tactics of the company accused of using Facebook data to influence elections. Plus: call for affordable housing plan by  Tuesday: Investigation reveals tactics of the company accused of using Facebook data to influence elections. Plus: call for affordable housing plan by  Morning mail: The murky world of Cambridge Analytica Mon 19 Mar 2018 First published on Mon 19 Mar 2018     Good morning, this is Eleanor Ainge Roy bringing you the main stories and must-reads on Tuesday 20 March. Top stories The company at the centre of the Facebook data mining scandal boasted of using honey traps, fake news campaigns and operations with ex-spies to swing election campaigns around the world. Executives from Cambridge Analytica spoke to undercover reporters from Channel 4 News and told them they had helped their clients by entrapping rival candidates in fake bribery stings and hiring prostitutes to seduce them, then videotaping encounters to use as leverage. The company chief executive, Alexander Nix, said: “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true as long as they’re believed.” Any work may have stayed out of the spotlight partly because Cambridge Analytica works hard to cover traces of its operations, Nix said, using a shifting network of names and front groups. On Sunday the Observer reported that Cambridge Analytica had made unauthorised use of tens of millions of Facebook profiles . The company, and Nix, are under pressure from politicians in the US and the UK to explain how it handled the data and what role the information may have played in election campaigns. 


[w534] Facebook’s security chief to depart role over company’s handling of misinformation Facebook’s security chief to depart role over company’s handling of misinformation [Updated] CSO Alex Stamos clashed with other executives over handling of Russian meddling. Facebook CSO Alex Stamos tweeted the following on Monday evening in the wake of The New York Times report: Despite the rumors, I'm still fully engaged with my work at Facebook. It's true that my role did change. I'm currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security. We have updated the story accordingly. Original story: Alex Stamos, Facebook's chief information security officer, will shift roles at the company. His transition will come in the wake of disagreements with other Facebook executives like COO Sheryl Sandberg about how to investigate and disclose Russian activity on the platform, The New York Times reports , citing employees of the social network. Stamos advocated for greater disclosure. Prior to his hiring at Facebook in 2015, Stamos was Chief Information Security Officer at Yahoo. Personnel on Stamos' security team—which previously numbered 120 but is now down to three—are being gradually transferred to the product and infrastructure divisions within Facebook, under his supervision. The NYT report suggests that this has been part of his responsibilities since December, when his normal day-to-day responsibilities as CSO were reassigned. He was asked by Facebook to stay through August for optics. Stamos is currently working in a new role in the company. "I'm currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security," he tweeted . He has not commented on any future plans to depart the organization entirely—a tweet clarifying his role after The New York Times  report did not dispute the report's claim that he is leaving Facebook in August. This news broke shortly after Facebook came under intense scrutiny over the inappropriate acquisition of its user data by Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm involved in elections in both the US and the UK. Stamos took to Twitter to defend the company—in particular, he sought to clarify that this was not a "data breach." He also said in a tweet that has since been deleted: It should be noted that several other prominent platforms, like Android and iOS, allow access to friend (contact) data with user permission. Like us, those platforms have policies about the use of data, but misusing contacts gathered knowingly from a phone is also not a "breach". Stamos later deleted those tweets, saying he "should have done a better job weighing in." Echoing some of the concerns that reportedly led to his departure from the role, he later tweeted : There are a lot of big problems that the big tech companies need to be better at fixing. We have collectively been too optimistic about what we build and our impact on the world. Believe it or not, a lot of the people at these companies, from the interns to the CEOs, agree.

[w535]Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections  Cambridge Analytica caught in undercover sting boasting about entrapping politicians - video The company at the centre of the Facebook data breach boasted of using honey traps, fake news campaigns and operations with ex-spies to swing election campaigns around the world, a new investigation reveals. Executives from Cambridge Analytica spoke to undercover reporters from Channel 4 News about the dark arts used by the company to help clients, which included entrapping rival candidates in fake bribery stings and hiring prostitutes to seduce them. In one exchange, the company chief executive, Alexander Nix, is recorded telling reporters: “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true as long as they’re believed.” The Channel 4 News investigation, broadcast on Monday, comes two days after the Observer reported Cambridge Analytica had unauthorised access to tens of millions of Facebook profiles in one of the social media company’s biggest data breaches. Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica  Name Alexander James Ashburner Nix Age 42 Education Eton, then Manchester University, where he  studied history of art Career Nix worked as a financial analyst in Mexico and the UK before joining SCL, a strategic communications firm, in 2003. From 2007 he took over the company’s elections division, and claims to have worked on  more than 40 campaigns  globally. Many of SCL’s projects are secret, so that may be a low estimate. He set up Cambridge Analytica to work in America, with investment from US hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer. He has been both hailed as a visionary – featuring on  Wired’s list  of “25 Geniuses who are creating the future of business” – and derided as a  snake oil salesman . Controversies Cambridge Analytica has come under scrutiny for its role in elections on both sides of the Atlantic, working on Brexit and Donald Trump’s election team. It is a key subject in two inquiries in the UK – by the Electoral Commission, into the firm’s possible role in the EU referendum, and the Information Commissioner’s Office, into data analytics for political purposes – and one in the US, as part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Trump-Russia collusion. The Observer revealed this week that the company had harvested millions of  Facebook  profiles of US voters, in one of the tech giant’s biggest ever data breaches, and used them to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box. Emma Graham-Harrison Photograph: The Washington Post Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. The company, and Nix, are under pressure from politicians in the US and the UK to explain how it handled the data and what role the information played in its campaigns, if any. Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer The Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham criticised Cambridge Analytica for being “unco-operative” with her investigation as she confirmed that her watchdog would apply for a warrant to help her examine the firm’s activities. Cambridge Analytica has sold itself as the ultimate hi-tech consultant, winning votes by using data to pinpoint target groups and design messages that will appeal powerfully to their interests, although it denies using Facebook information in its work. But in the undercover investigation by Channel 4 News, in association with the Observer, executives claimed to offer a much darker range of services. No 10 'very concerned' over Facebook data breach by Cambridge Analytica Read more In a series of meetings with a reporter posing as a representative of a wealthy Sri Lankan family seeking political influence, Cambridge Analytica executives initially denied the company was in the business of using entrapment techniques. But Nix later detailed the dirty tricks the company would be prepared to pull behind the scenes to help its clients. When the reporter asked if Cambridge Analytica could offer investigations into the damaging secrets of rivals, Nix said it worked with former spies from Britain and Israel to look for political dirt. He also volunteered that his team were ready to go further than an investigation. “Oh, we do a lot more than that,” he said over dinner at an exclusive hotel in London. “Deep digging is interesting, but you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true and make sure that that’s video recorded. “You know these sort of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption.” Nix suggested one possible scenario, in which the managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division, Mark Turnbull, would pose as a wealthy developer looking to exchange campaign finance for land. “I’m a master of disguise,” Turnbull said. Another option, Nix suggested, would be to create a sex scandal. “Send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things,” he told the reporter. “We could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us, you know what I’m saying.” He said these were hypothetical scenarios, but suggested his ideas were based on precedent. “Please don’t pay too much attention to what I’m saying, because I’m just giving you examples of what can be done, what has been done.” Any work may have stayed out of the spotlight partly because Cambridge Analytica works hard to cover traces of its operations, Nix said, using a shifting network of names and front groups. “We’re used to operating through different vehicles, in the shadows, and I look forward to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you,” Nix told the source in a first phone call. Cambridge Analytica sometimes contracts under a different name, so that there are no records of its involvement, Turnbull said. That does not only protect the company, but also makes its work more efficient, he is recorded saying. “It has to happen without anyone thinking it’s propaganda, because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda’ the next question is: ‘Who’s put that out?’” What are the files? He added: “It may be that we have to contract under a different name ... a different entity, with a different name, so that no record exists with our name attached to this at all.” In a recent project in eastern Europe, the company sent a team but “no one even knew they were there, they were just ghosted in, did the work, ghosted out”, Turnbull said. Covers include the setting up of fake academic projects, sometimes simply going in on tourist visas, as former employees have told the Guardian they did for US elections – apparently employed in violation of Federal law. Nix also offered details regarding the services of professional ex-spies from Britain and Israel. “We have two projects at the moment, which involve doing deep deep depth research on the opposition and providing source ... really damaging source material, that we can decide how to deploy in the course of the campaign.” Denham told Channel 4 News that she had issued a demand for access to Cambridge Analytica earlier this month. They were given until 6pm on Monday to respond to it, but she said the company had been “unco-operative” with the investigation and that she would be applying to the courts on Tuesday for a warrant. “We need to get in there. We need to look at the databases. We need to look at the servers and understand how data was processed or deleted by Cambridge Analytica. There are a lot of conflicting stories about the data,” she said. Cambridge Analytica said the Channel 4 News investigation contained false claims, factual inaccuracies and substantial mischaracterisations. It accused Channel 4 of setting out to entrap staff by initiating a conversation about unethical practices. It rejected any suggestion that the company used fake news, honey traps, bribes or entrapment. It said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Anlytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever … Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose.” Of the suggestions they used honey trap techniques, the company said: “Our executives humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to further disclose his intentions.” Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video In a later statement Cambridge Analytica accused Channel 4 News of attempting to entrap its executives by initiating a conversation about unethical practices, which it insisted the company did not use. Admitting he misjudged the situation, Nix said: “In playing along with this line of conversation … we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios. I am aware how this looks … I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner.” On Saturday, Cambridge Analytica denied it had done anything wrong in relation to the handling of Facebook data. “Cambridge Analytica only receives and uses data that has been obtained legally and fairly. Our robust data protection policies comply with US, international, European Union, and national regulations,” it said. 


[w536]     CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA CEO Alexander Nix has been suspended after a second Channel 4 report showed him claiming credit for the election of Donald Trump.  The report, which aired on Tuesday , saw Nix boasting of running the "digital campaign" for Trump's election team, helping him to secure "tens of thousands" of votes in three crucial states. He also admitted to using encrypted email service ProtonMail to proactively delete potential evidence.  Shortly after the report aired, Cambridge Analytica announced in a statement that Nix would be suspended pending a "full, independent investigation".  "In the view of the board, Mr Nix's recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation," the company said. "We have asked Dr Alexander Tayler to serve as acting CEO while an independent investigation is launched to review those comments and allegations." Tayler is the chief data scientist at SCL Group, Cambridge Analytica's parent company, where Nix still serves as director.  In a separate statement, Cambridge Analytica said it was cooperating with the ICO , which this week obtained an urgent warrant to access the company's servers. "Since early last year we have subsequently cooperated with the ICO on multiple lines of enquiry," the firm said, despite the ICO's claims that it had received no response from Cambridge Analytica. Meanwhile, in Silicon Valley, Zuckerberg has yet to come out of hiding, despite being summoned by UK parliament to give evidence over the "catastrophic failure of process" behind the Cambridge Analytica data breach. Facebook issued a statement claiming that "Mark, Sheryl and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward because they understand the seriousness of this issue." It added that "the entire company is outraged we were deceived," despite claims that Facebook knew about the "unprecedented" data harvesting by late-2015. Things are going from bad to worse for the company too, as Brian Acton, co-founder of WhatsApp ( which was, er, acquired by Facebook in 2014 ) joining the #deletefacebook movement on Twitter. Facebook, so far, has lost around $50bn since news of the data breach broke over the weekend, and with both the ICO and US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) launching investigations into the firm, it's losses are probably going to get a lot worse. 20/3/18: The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is seeking an urgent warrant to access the servers of Cambridge Analytica, which allegedly used data mined from 50 million Facebook users to influence 2016's presidential election. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham confirmed the move to Channel 4, which on Monday aired a documentary ( below ) that showed Cambridge Analytics execs - including CEO Alexander Nix - boasting about entrapping politicians, using honey traps and running fake news campaigns. "We need to get in there, we need to look at the databases, we need to look at the servers and understand how data was processed or deleted by Cambridge Analytica," Denham said.  Denham also demanded that Facebook halt a data audit of Cambridge Analytica, saying it could prejudice her investigation. Security consultants from Stroz Friedberg, who had been called in by Facebook to do the audit, were in Cambridge Analytica's London offices on Monday but were ordered to leave by the ICO. Many have questioned Facebook's motives, with culture select committee chair, Damian Collins telling the BBC : "Facebook sent in data analysts and lawyers who they appointed, what they intended to do there, who knows? "The concern would have been, were they removing information or evidence which could have been vital to the investigation? It's right they stood down but it's astonishing they were there in the first place." In response to Channel 4's extraordinary documentary, Cambridge Analytics said, seemingly without any sense of irony: "Assessing the legality and reputational risks associated with new projects is critical for us, and we routinely undertake conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions. "The two Cambridge Analytica executives at the meeting humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions." While things could get much worse for Facebook - with CEO Mark Zuckerberg yet to come out of hiding since the scandal first broke over the weekend - it was also reported on Monday that the firm's chief information security officer Alex Stamos will leave the social networking giant by August. The New York Times reports that Stamos "disagreed" with other Facebook execs over the company's approach to Russian influence campaigns. Stamos had "advocated more disclosure around Russian interference of the platform and some restructuring to better address the issues", the NYT reports, but was met with resistance by colleagues. In a Twitter post, Stamos  confirmed  that his "role did change," but that he's also still "fully engaged" with work at Facebook. He didn't definitively say whether or not he was leaving the company. 19/3/18: Data crunching firm Cambridge Analytica has been suspended from Facebook amid claims it illegally harvested data from 50 million users without their consent. Revelations by whistleblower Chris Wylie, first published in  The Observer  and  The New York Times , claims Cambridge Analytica obtained the data via Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan. Through his company Global Science Research, in collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, Kogan built an app called 'thisisyourdigitallife' that paid hundreds of thousands of   Facebook   users to take a personality test and agree to have their data collected for academic use. The app, however, also collected the information of the test-takers' Facebook friends, something allowed by Facebook until 2015, which lead to the accumulation of a data pool "tens of millions-strong".  Kogan, who worked with Wylie to obtain the data, then sold the information to Cambridge Analytica, according to The Observer, a move that went against Facebook's 'platform policy' that only allowed for the collection of friends' data to improve the user experience. "We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on," Wylie, former research director at Cambridge Analytica, said. This data was then turned into information used by the likes of Steve Bannon and the Donald Trump Campaign to "micro-target" individuals based on shared characteristics. The Observer describes this as one of Facebook's "biggest ever data breaches" with the stolen information used "to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box". Documents seen by the newspaper show that Facebook knew about the "unprecedented" data harvesting by late-2015, but failed to alert users and took only "limited steps" to recover and secure the private information. In response to the revelations, Facebook  announced  that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica and Kogan from the platform, pending further information over misuse of data. Cambridge Analytica has denied any wrongdoing and says that its parent company Strategic Communication Laboratories [SCL] hired Kogan to undertake "a large-scale research project in the US", none of which was used in the firm's 2016 election work. Facebook said in a statement that "the claim that this is a data breach is completely false". It added: "Aleksandr Kogan requested and gained access to information from users who chose to sign up to his app, and everyone involved gave their consent. "People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked." That isn't going to stop the firm from facing investigations, though, with both the Electoral Commission and Information Commissioner's Office announcing on Saturday that they would be looking into whether Facebook data had been "illegally acquired and used". Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said: "We are investigating the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used. "It's part of our ongoing investigation into the use of data analytics for political purposes which was launched to consider how political parties and campaigns, data analytics companies and social media platforms in the UK are using and analysing people's personal information to micro-target voters." In the US, Massachusetts attorney general Maura Healey also announced her office is opening an investigation into the social networking site. 

[w537] Democrats Plan to Question Professor at Center of Facebook–Cambridge Analytica Scandal  Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, answers brief questions from the media on February 5, 2018 at the U.S. Capitol. Photo: AP University of Cambridge professor Aleksandr Kogan told colleagues in an email this weekend that he’d volunteer to testify before Congress about his role in Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal , according to CNN. House and Senate Democrats are prepared to accept Dr. Kogan’s offer. According to Facebook, Dr. Kogan provided Cambridge Analytica—a political data analytics firm hired by President Donald Trump’s campaign and financed by billionaire Robert Mercer—access to information about 50 million Facebook users, all the while telling Facebook the data was being gathered for academic purposes. The firm reportedly used that data to create “psychographic” profiles on Americans, which it is said to have used to try to influence the American electorate in favor of the Trump campaign. Friday night, Facebook announced it had suspended the firm from Facebook, saying Cambridge Analytica had illegitimately obtained its data and failed to delete it when ordered to do so in 2015. Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, has already invited Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie to provide testimony. “Revelations that Cambridge Analytica secretly acquired the personal, private information of more than 50 million Facebook users without their permission or that of Facebook, must be thoroughly investigated,” he said. A Democratic committee aide told Gizmodo this afternoon that Schiff also plans to reach out to Dr. Kogan in coming days. Advertisement A Senate aide said that Sen. Mark Warner, vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, plans to invite Dr. Kogan to testify as well. Facebook Will Audit Cambridge Analytica to Find Out If It Still Has Scraped Profile Data [Updated] Cambridge Analytica, the data analytics firm that worked on Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential… Read more “Reports that an American professor with links to Russia was at the center of this illicit transfer of information raises further questions, which the Committee must investigate,” Schiff said. He added that his committee had not had the opportunity to speak with “numerous” Cambridge Analytica employees, despite requests, and said they must now be brought in for interviews. Advertisement In Dr. Kogan’s email (obtained by CNN ) he told his colleagues: “I’ve also seriously been asked if the FBI has reached out, if the two congressional committees in the United States have reached out, and if Parliament or any authorities in the UK have reached out. No one has—I suspect they realize I’m actually not a spy. Though if anyone does, I’d be more than happy to testify and speak candidly about the project.” A biography of Dr. Kogan—who temporary changed his last name to Spectre at some point, according various reports—appears to have disappeared from the University of Cambridge Department of Psychology website in the last week. His profile on the Cambridge Neuroscience page remains online , however. The University of Cambridge, which, despite its name, is not affiliate with Cambridge Analytica in any way, has asked Facebook to supply it with “all relevant evidence” related to Dr. Kogan gifting the political firm its data. Advertisement “It is not uncommon for Cambridge academics to have business interests, but they must satisfy the University that these are held in a personal capacity and that there are no conflicts of interest,” a University spokesperson said. They added that Dr. Kogan had previously given assurances that no University data or resources had been used for his commercial enterprise, Global Science Research (GSR), the company that collaborated with Cambridge Analytica, where Dr. Kogan is director. Sen. Ron Wyden, also a member of the Senate Intelligence Committe, sent Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg a letter on Monday with a series of questions about the misuse of its data. The Oregon senator asked Facebook for example whether it has made any attempt to notify the 50 million users impacted, and to specify whether other third parties have used Facebook’s data in violation of its policies over the last decade. Advertisement Facebook, which contends it has no way of knowing whether the data was used to help the Trump Campaign, would not say whether it intends to respond to Sen. Wyden’s questions. VP and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal told Gizmodo: “We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information.” Got a 

[w538] Cambridge Analytica secretly filmed saying it can entrap politicians The CEO of Cambridge Analytica was secretly filmed offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers      Channel 4 News secretly filmed Cambridge Analytica's CEO, Alexander Nix, offering to entrap politicians with bribes and sex workers. The bombshell investigation also shows Cambridge Analytica's executives acknowledging that it discreetly seeded compromising videos of politicians on the internet and helped them go viral. Cambridge Analytica has pushed back on allegations that it uses entrapment tactics. In a statement, Nix said he played along with the undercover reporter, who he thought was a client, to spare them from embarrassment. The company was recently suspended by Facebook over a huge data scandal. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , has been secretly filmed offering shadowy services to entrap politicians. The bombshell footage, broadcast Monday as part of an investigation by Channel 4 News, comes days after Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica over an incident involving its harvesting of data from 50 million profiles. An undercover Channel 4 News reporter filmed the data firm's CEO, Alexander Nix, and his colleagues over four meetings from November to January. The journalist posed as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka. In one exchange filmed in January, Nix said Cambridge Analytica could send "somebody posing as a wealthy developer" to Sri Lanka to offer incumbent politicians a "large amount of money" in a "deal that's too good to be true," such as for land. Advertisement "We'll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we'll blank out the face of our guy, and then post it on the internet," Nix said on camera. "These sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption," he added. Offering bribes to public officials is an offense under both the UK's Bribery Act and the US's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cambridge Analytica operates in the UK and is registered in the US. At the same meeting at London's five-star Berkeley Hotel, Nix said Cambridge Analytica could "send some girls around to the candidate's house — we have lots of history of things." He added: "That was just an idea. I'm just saying we could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us, you know. You know what I'm saying."        Advertisement In the footage, Mark Turnbull, the managing director of Cambridge Analytica Political Global, also described the company's process of discreetly seeding compromising videos on the internet and helping them go viral. At a meeting in December, Turnbull told Channel 4's reporter: "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then — and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again … like a remote control." He also said: "It has to happen without anyone thinking 'that's propaganda,' because the moment you think 'that's propaganda,' the next question is 'who's put that out?'" Channel 4 News' investigation also accuses Cambridge Analytica of using "shadowy front companies" or subcontractors to achieve its aims.        Advertisement You can watch excerpts from the secret filming below. According to Channel 4 News, the executives also boasted that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, Strategic Communications Laboratories Group, had worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including in Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India, and Argentina. Cambridge Analytica also worked for Donald Trump's presidential campaign in 2016. Business Insider contacted Cambridge Analytica more than two hours before the Channel 4 investigation was broadcast, and a spokesman said it was "hard to reply to something we haven't seen." But Business Insider understands that Channel 4 News sent the data firm a 20-page document a week ago detailing the allegations and the contents of the undercover filming. The data firm told Channel 4 News, "We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called 'honey-traps' for any purpose whatsoever," adding that "Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose."        Advertisement A former Cambridge Analytica employee named Christopher Wylie recently detailed how the company harvested the Facebook data of millions of users and used the information to power software that helped target voters with personalized political advertising. Channel 4 News says it will broadcast further allegations later this week about Cambridge Analytica's work for the Trump campaign. Update: A Cambridge Analytica representative emailed Business Insider with the company's full statement soon after Channel 4 News' investigation aired on British television. It included a direct quote from Nix, saying he played along with the undercover reporter, who he thought was a client, to spare them from embarrassment. Read the statement in full:        Advertisement Cambridge Analytica held a series of meetings with the undercover reporter to discuss philanthropic, infrastructure, and political projects in Sri Lanka. While outlining the company's services as a data-driven communications and marketing agency, a senior Cambridge Analytica executive clearly set out the principles which govern its work and said the following to the undercover reporter: "We're not in the business of fake news, we're not in the business of lying, making stuff up, and we're not in the business of entrapment … There are companies that do this but to me that crosses a line." Despite this clear statement, the undercover reporter later attempted to entrap Cambridge Analytica executives by initiating a conversation about unethical practices. After several meetings discussing ostensibly legitimate projects, the reporter unexpectedly and suddenly turned the conversation towards practices such as corruption and the entrapment of political figures. Assessing the legality and reputational risks associated with new projects is critical for us, and we routinely undertake conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions. The two Cambridge Analytica executives at the meeting humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions. They left with grave concerns and did not meet with him again. We use meetings like this to make an informed decision about those whom we should or shouldn't engage with, in line with the guidance laid out by Section 9 of the UK Bribery Act 2010. The company's practice is for staff to gently de-escalate the conversation before removing themselves from the situation. However, CEO Alexander Nix acknowledges that on this occasion he misjudged the situation:        Advertisement "In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our 'client' from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios. I am aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called 'honeytraps,' and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose. "I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner." Cambridge Analytica is a high-profile company. While we work for clients from all sides of the political mainstream across many countries, some do not want it known that they are using a professional political consultancy. We understand this and allow our clients to work with us discreetly. This is not unusual in the industry. Like any marketing agency, Cambridge Analytica uses social media platforms for placing paid advertisements and organic content. Influencer marketing and building grassroots networks on social media are both common activities for a modern political campaign. Everything you need to know about Christopher Wylie, the 28-year-old who blew the lid off a huge Facebook data breach Cambridge Analytica Facebook Christopher Wylie      

[w539]          Monday episodes of Late Night with Seth Meyers are a special treat. Back in the pre-Trump era, the show’s “A Closer Look” segments were often reserved for a John-Oliver-style piece on a single topic (hence the title, presumably). But they’ve long since been broadened into “Weekend Update” type overviews in an attempt to keep up with the manic pace of our national implosion. On Mondays, Meyers has three days of new developments to cram in, and the result is as much fun as watching Lucy and Ethel at the candy factory . Meyers acknowledges the challenge, opening the segment by ruefully shaking his head and exclaiming, “Man, crazy shit happens so fast in this presidency, sometimes it feels like I’m binge watching it.” Here’s a brief rundown of everything he takes a closer look at:   • The president suing Stormy Daniels. • Trump’s inconsistency about how well he knows Putin. • Facebook suspending Cambridge Analytica. • Trump’s Twitter tirade against Robert Mueller. • Trump’s tweets about Andrew McCabe. • Trump firing McCabe. • Trump firing James Comey. • McCabe’s claim that he has memos about his meetings with Trump and Trump’s reaction. • Trump’s incentives and possible consequences if he fires Robert Mueller.  That is a lot to cram into nine minutes of late night television, and it’s a tribute to Meyers that he makes it through so much news and necessary context while still finding time to make a joke about the president hiring lawyers named “Harder” and “Stonerock” to sue an adult actress. But it doesn’t seem like the pace of the news is likely to slow down soon, so sooner or later, the show will have to either narrow its focus or hire the Micro Machine man . 


[w559]Facebook Exit Hints at Dissent on Handling of Russian Trolls As Facebook grapples with a backlash over its role in spreading disinformation, an internal dispute over how to handle the threat and the public outcry is resulting in the departure of a senior executive. The impending exit of that executive — Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer — reflects heightened leadership tension at the top of the social network. Much of the internal disagreement is rooted in how much Facebook should publicly share about how nation states misused the platform and debate over organizational changes in the run-up to the 2018 midterm elections, according to current and former employees briefed on the matter. Mr. Stamos, who plans to leave Facebook by August, had advocated more disclosure around Russian interference of the platform and some restructuring to better address the issues, but was met with resistance by colleagues, said the current and former employees. In December, Mr. Stamos’s day-to-day responsibilities were reassigned to others, they said. Mr. Stamos said he would leave Facebook but was persuaded to stay through August to oversee the transition of his responsibilities and because executives thought his departure would look bad, the people said. He has been overseeing the transfer of his security team to Facebook’s product and infrastructure divisions. His group, which once had 120 people, now has three, the current and former employees said. Mr. Stamos would be the first high-ranking employee to leave Facebook since controversy over disinformation on its site. Company leaders — including Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer — have struggled to address a growing set of problems , including Russian interference on the platform, the rise of false news and the disclosure over the weekend that 50 million of its user profiles had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, a voter-profiling company. ■ More about how Cambridge Analytica collected Facebook data . ■ The growing outcry on two continents over Facebook’s role in misuse of data. The developments have taken a toll internally, said the seven people briefed on the matter, who asked not to be identified because the proceedings were confidential. Some of the company’s executives are weighing their own legacies and reputations as Facebook’s image has taken a beating. Several believe the company would have been better off saying little about Russian interference and note that other companies, such as Twitter, which have stayed relatively quiet on the issue, have not had to deal with as much criticism. One central tension at Facebook has been that of the legal and policy teams versus the security team. The security team generally pushed for more disclosure about how nation states had misused the site, but the legal and policy teams have prioritized business imperatives, said the people briefed on the matter. “The people whose job is to protect the user always are fighting an uphill battle against the people whose job is to make money for the company,” said Sandy Parakilas, who worked at Facebook enforcing privacy and other rules until 2012 and now advises a nonprofit organization called the Center for Humane Technology , which is looking at the effect of technology on people. Mr. Stamos said in statement on Monday, “These are really challenging issues, and I’ve had some disagreements with all of my colleagues, including other executives.” On Twitter, he said he was “still fully engaged with my work at Facebook” and acknowledged that his role has changed, without addressing his future plans. Facebook did not have a comment on the broader issues around Mr. Stamos’s departure. Mr. Stamos joined Facebook from Yahoo in June 2015. He and other Facebook executives, such as Ms. Sandberg, disagreed early on over how proactive the social network should be in policing its own platform, said the people briefed on the matter. In his statement, Mr. Stamos said his relationship with Ms. Sandberg was “productive.” Mr. Stamos first put together a group of engineers to scour Facebook for Russian activity in June 2016, the month the Democratic National Committee announced it had been attacked by Russian hackers, the current and former employees said. By November 2016, the team had uncovered evidence that Russian operatives had aggressively pushed DNC leaks and propaganda on Facebook. That same month, Mr. Zuckerberg publicly dismissed the notion that fake news influenced the 2016 election, calling it a “pretty crazy idea.” In the ensuing months, Facebook’s security team found more Russian disinformation and propaganda on its site, according to the current and former employees. By the spring of 2017, deciding how much Russian interference to disclose publicly became a major source of contention within the company. Mr. Stamos pushed to disclose as much as possible, while others including Elliot Schrage, Facebook’s vice president of communications and policy, recommended not naming Russia without more ironclad evidence, said the current and former employees. A detailed memorandum Mr. Stamos wrote in early 2017 describing Russian interference was scrubbed for mentions of Russia and winnowed into a blog post last April that outlined, in hypothetical terms, how Facebook could be manipulated by a foreign adversary, they said. Russia was only referenced in a vague footnote. That footnote acknowledged that Facebook’s findings did not contradict a declassified January 2017 report in which the director of national intelligence concluded Russia had sought to undermine United States election, and Hillary Clinton in particular. Mr. Stamos said in his statement that “we decided that the responsible thing to do would be to make clear that our findings were consistent with those released by the U.S. intelligence community, which clearly connected the activity in their report to Russian state-sponsored actors.” But Facebook’s decision to omit Russia backfired. Weeks later, a Time magazine article revealed that Russia had created fake accounts and purchased fake ads to spread propaganda on the platform, allegations that Facebook initially denied. By last September, after Mr. Stamos’s investigation had revealed further Russian interference, Facebook was forced to reverse course. That month, the company disclosed that beginning in June 2015, Russians had paid Facebook $100,000 to run roughly 3,000 divisive ads to show the American electorate. In response, lawmakers like Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, said that although Facebook’s revelation was a good first step, “I’m disappointed it’s taken 10 months of raising this issue before they’ve become much more transparent.” And the revelation also prompted more attention into how Russians had manipulated the social network. Last October and November, Facebook was grilled in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill for Russian meddling on its platform, along with executives from Twitter and YouTube. The public reaction caused some at Facebook to recoil at revealing more, said the current and former employees. Since the 2016 election, Facebook has paid unusual attention to the reputations of Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg, conducting polls to track how they are viewed by the public, said Tavis McGinn, who was recruited to the company last April and headed the executive reputation efforts through September 2017. Mr. McGinn, who now heads Honest Data, which has done polling about Facebook’s reputation in different countries, said Facebook is “caught in a Catch-22.” “Facebook cares so much about its image that the executives don’t want to come out and tell the whole truth when things go wrong,” he said. “But if they don’t, it damages their image.” Mr. McGinn said he left Facebook after becoming disillusioned with the company’s conduct. By December 2017, Mr. Stamos, who reports to Facebook’s general counsel, proposed that he report directly to higher-ups. Facebook executives rejected that proposal and instead reassigned Mr. Stamos’s team, splitting the security team between its product team, overseen by Guy Rosen, and infrastructure team, overseen by Pedro Canahuati, according to current and former employees. Apart from managing a small team of engineers in San Francisco, Mr. Stamos has largely been left as Facebook’s security communicator. Last month, he appeared as Facebook’s representative at the Munich Security Conference. Over the weekend, after news broke that Cambridge Analytica had harvested data on as many as 50 million Facebook users, Facebook’s communications team encouraged Mr. Stamos to tweet in defense of the company, but only after it asked to approve Mr. Stamos’s tweets, according to two people briefed on the incident. After the tweets set off a furious response, Mr. Stamos deleted them. Roger B. McNamee, an early investor in Facebook who said he considered himself a mentor to Mr. Zuckerberg, said the company was failing to face the fundamental problems posed by the Russian meddling and other manipulation of content. “I told them, ‘Your business is based on trust, and you’re losing trust,’” said Mr. McNamee, a founder of the Center for Humane Technology. “They were treating it as a P.R. problem, when it’s a business problem. I couldn’t believe these guys I once knew so well had gotten so far off track.” 

[w560]  The exit of Alex Stamos reveals a troubling debate within Facebook.          Who Does Facebook Serve? The slow-motion exit of the company’s security chief has revealed a troubling internal debate over whether the social network should prioritize users or profits.  Alex Stamos reportedly argued that Facebook should disclose more information about Russian misbehavior on the platform during the 2016 election. He lost the debate. Win McNamee/Getty Images  Facebook’s head of security, Alex Stamos, is leaving the social network in August, according to the New York Times as well as multiple journalists citing sources within the company Monday evening. The Times reports that Stamos has already started to prepare for his exit, a slow-motion exodus that began last year following a push from Stamos and his security team for Facebook to be more forthcoming about how Russian operatives utilized the social network to attempt to influence voters during the 2016 election. Though Facebook was eventually forced to disclose information about that activity, Stamos reportedly lost the fight.   Why does the egress of a Facebook executive unknown to the vast majority of its users matter? Because of the awkward timing of the reporting—just days after Stamos struggled to publicly defend the company’s fraying reputation in the aftermath of its stunning disclosures involving the data firm Cambridge Analytica—and because of the internal debate that apparently led to Stamos’ exit in progress: It was between those who think Facebook should prioritize doing right by its users and those who think its first responsibility is to its profits.   Not that you got that sense listening to Stamos and Facebook on Monday night. Both said that the Times’ reporting is off—kinda. In a notable nondenial, Stamos wrote on Twitter : “Despite the rumors, I’m still fully engaged with my work at Facebook. It’s true that my role did change. I’m currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security.” Facebook issued a kind of nondenial of Stamos’ nondenial: “Alex Stamos continues to be the Chief Security Officer at Facebook. He has held the position for nearly three years and leads our security efforts especially around emerging security risks.”   News of Stamos’ departure comes as Facebook is grappling with a long string of public relations nightmares over the past year, the most recent being the company’s announcement this past Friday evening that it had suspended the accounts of the Trump-hired data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica and two others involved with firm—this in advance of damning reports from the Guardian and the New York Times . Those reports detailed how Facebook allowed for data on more than 50 million user profiles to be harvested and then passed to Cambridge Analytica, which ran voter-targeting operations for both Ted Cruz’s and then Donald Trump’s presidential campaigns. Facebook says that when it found out that user data had been improperly passed to Cambridge Analytica in 2015, it requested the company and its associates delete it and confirm that the data had been destroyed. After recently learning, more than two years later, that the data had not actually been destroyed, Facebook shared publicly that it was suspending the data firm and its associates’ accounts.    Immediately after sharing the news, Facebook started receiving criticism for not notifying tens of millions of users who had their profile data illegitimately handed over to a voter-targeting operation when it first learned of the incident. And Stamos, who has encouraged responsible disclosures of security missteps in the past, tweeted an attempt to rationalize the company’s data-security practices at the time, which allowed for app developers to scrape the Facebook data of their users and their users’ friends, the method by which associates working on behalf of Cambridge Analytica were likely able to collect Facebook data on tens of millions of people. With details of Stamos’ pending goodbye coming into focus Monday night, Facebook’s decision not to inform users that their data was improperly handed to Cambridge Analytica—on top of newly reported details about how Facebook delayed the disclosure of evidence the company had collected of Russian government –sponsored propaganda efforts on its site—the reputation of the security operation Stamos was tasked with managing is hurting. After all, Facebook’s users put a lot of trust in the company’s security every time they post a photo or missive, even if they don’t always think deeply about the privacy bargain they make in order to use a free service. That’s something that can’t sit well with Stamos, who is highly respected in the information security community for being a staunch advocate of working in the interest of users.   Tensions between Stamos and Facebook reportedly began to mount in spring 2017, after Facebook’s security team had spent the past year uncovering evidence about how Kremlin-backed trolls weaponized Facebook to push disinformation as well as news about the reportedly Russian-orchestrated hack of the Democratic National Convention, according to the Times. Although Stamos’ team had found evidence of Russian meddling by November 2016, it wasn’t until April 2017 that Facebook even nodded at the idea publicly. And even then, it was in a footnote in a report saying its findings were in line with the January 2017 report from the director of national intelligence that stated with “high confidence” that Russia worked to undermine Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and help secure Donald Trump’s election.  Less than a month later, in May, Time reported that Russian agents had created fake accounts on Facebook and Twitter and had bought ads on Facebook in an attempt to manipulate American social media users. Despite the fact that Stamos had reportedly found evidence of Russian meddling on Facebook back in fall 2016, Facebook told Time that it had “no evidence” of Russian agents buying ads on Facebook to target specific users with divisive content. Four months later, in September, Facebook came forward with more specifics in a blog post . The company admitted that Kremlin-linked operatives had spent $100,000 to push some 10,000 ads to Americans since mid-2015. This admission sparked congressional concern, ultimately leading to three public hearings where lawyers from Facebook, Twitter, and Google testified in front of Congress about the extent of Russian disinformation on their platforms and what they should have done to stop it. All along, according to the Times, a debate raged within the company over whether Facebook should err on the side of full disclosure or foremost protect its business.    By the end of last year, Facebook had reportedly started to whittle down Stamos’s security team and assign employees to work under two other executives at Facebook as their old boss began to prepare for his departure.  This isn’t the first time Alex Stamos has left his post as chief of security at a major Silicon Valley company after it failed to protect its users. The engineer resigned from a similar job at Yahoo in 2015 after learning that the company had complied with a secret request, either from the National Security Agency or the FBI, according to Reuters , to scan all of its customers’ incoming emails, affecting hundreds of millions of users. In May 2015, Stamos’ team found the surveillance installation, which had reportedly been approved by then-CEO Marissa Mayer, and he resigned shortly after. In June 2015, he started at Facebook. Considering Stamos once organized a conference called TrustyCon in protest of reported collaboration between the security firm RSA and the NSA to put back doors in popular encryption products, I have to imagine Stamos won’t go for a tech-giant hat trick after he leaves Facebook’s Menlo Park headquarters for good. Either way, when he leaves, he will be the first major executive to depart Facebook since it became embroiled in a controversy over how it mishandled a plague of disinformation and bad faith during the 2016 presidential election. He probably won’t be the last. 


[w540]     WhatsApp co-founder wants everyone to delete Facebook, here’s why As Facebook struggles to grapple with one its largest data breaches, Facebook-owned WhatsApp’s co-founder Brian Acton is asking people to delete Facebook. Taking to Twitter, Brian wrote, "It is time. #deletefacebook.” It is time. #deletefacebook 	— Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 Facebook bought instant messaging platform WhatsApp in 2014 for $16 billion. Brian quit WhatsApp earlier this year to start his own foundation – the Signal Foundation. WhatsApp’s other co-founder Jan Koum continues to lead the company. Facebook has been under the scanner over the past week after it came to light that Cambridge Analytica, a political data analytics company accessed data of over 50 million users of the social media platform without their permission. Cambridge Analytica is largely funded by Donald Trump supporter Robert Mercer, who donated mney for his election campaign. The firm is said to have used this data to target political ads on Facebook based on each user’s likes and interests. The data was accessed by Cambridge Analytica from the creator of a quiz taken by 270,000 Facebook users. That creator then passed on the data to Cambridge Analytica, which is against Facebook’s policy. This points to a major loophole in Facebook’s API, which allows third-party developers to collect data not just from the users of the Facebook app, but also from that user’s friends network on the social media platform. However, Facebook’s policy states that such data cannot be marketed or sold, a rule that was violated by Cambridge Analytica Facebook knew about this data leak back in 2015, but didn’t make the information public. Interestingly, it has also emerged that private information of  hundreds of millions of Facebook users could have been similarly harvested by companies that exploited the same terms. According to Sandy Parakilas , an ex-employee of Facebook who was the platform operations manager responsible for policing data breaches by third-party software developers between 2011 and 2012, he had previously warned senior executives that its ‘lax approach’ towards protected data posed serious risks of data breach. Sandy told Guadian that Facebook did not use its enforcement mechanisms or audit external developers to ensure data was not being misused. He says that Facebook has absolutely no control over the data once it left Facebook’s servers and there was no insight into what was going on. He further claimed that Facebook felt like it was better not to know what happened with the data as it was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening.  

[w541]   Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak, Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. The company’s board said CEO Alexander Nix would remain suspended pending a “full, independent investigation” into his involvement in what he was filmed describing as entrapping politicians. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. An undercover reporter for Britain’s Channel 4 News secretly filmed the CEO, Alexander Nix, offering shadowy services to entrap politicians, as well as boasting about using online propaganda tools, including so-called psychographic modeling techniques, to help Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. The news outlet’s monthslong, multipart investigation into the company is airing this week. /5908/BI_SG/imu1/bi/sg “Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm, and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” the board wrote in a statement on Tuesday. /5908/BI_SG/midarticlespecial/bi/sg The undercover reporter, posing as a fixer for a wealthy client working to elect politicians in Sri Lanka, filmed Nix and his colleagues over four meetings from November to January. Facebook recently suspended Cambridge Analytica over an incident involving its harvesting of data from 50 million profiles. Cambridge Analytica – founded by Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist, and Robert Mercer, a top GOP donor who has sunk at least $15 million into the company – is said to have used personal data gleaned from tens of millions of profiles to predict the behavior of individual American voters. The company’s board said it would launch an internal investigation into allegations of Nix’s wrongdoing and make the conclusions public. In the meantime, Alexander Tayler, the company’s chief data officer, will serve as the acting CEO. In one exchange filmed by the undercover Channel 4 News reporter, Nix said he had met Trump “many times” and described what the firm undertook for his campaign. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting – we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy,” Nix said. In another conversation, Tayler argued that the firm’s work helped Trump emerge victorious. “When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes but won the Electoral College vote, that’s down to the data and the research,” he said. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told Channel 4 News: “CA has never claimed it won the election for President Trump. This is patently absurd.” 


[w542]

[w543]  

[w544] Facebook faces substantial business risks from new European Union privacy rules set to take effect in May, a looming reality that came into stark relief over the weekend with revelations that a controversial political consulting firm had improperly obtained personal data on 50 million Facebook users. Privacy experts said the disclosure that a researcher had sold Facebook data collected via a personality quiz to the consulting firm Cambridge Analytica is a prime example of the kinds of practices that the new General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, is supposed to prevent or punish. The danger faced by Facebook going forward is two-fold: Complying with the rules means letting European users opt out of the highly targeted online ads that have made Facebook a money machine. Violating GDPR mandates could subject the California company to fines of up to 4 per cent of annual revenues. Had the Cambridge Analytica incident happened after GDPR becomes law on May 25, it "would have cost Facebook 4 per cent of their global revenue", said Austrian privacy campaigner and Facebook critic Max Schrems.  Because a UK company was involved and because at least some of the people whose data was misused were almost certainly European, GDPR would have applied.  Views Could Star Wars tech become reality? Jun 01, 2018 Mr Schrems first raised concerns in 2011 about how easy it would be for third-party apps to harvest data from the unwitting friends of Facebook users. Mr Schrems has founded a non-profit, called None Of Your Business, that is hiring lawyers and exploring avenues for "strategic litigation" over GDPR privacy violations. "The fact of the matter is that Facebook lost control of the data and wasn't adequately monitoring what third-parties were doing," said Mr Scott Vernick, a partner and an expert in privacy and data security at the Philadelphia law firm Fox Rothschild. INADEQUATE MONITORING Mr Vernick said the maximum GDPR fine could come into play in an incident like this because of the number of users affected and what appears to have been inadequate monitoring of third-party data practices. Facebook said it changed its policies in 2014 to "to give much less data, especially about friends," Facebook Vice-President Andrew Bosworth said in a post on Monday. "We conduct a robust review to identify potential policy violations and to assess whether the app has a legitimate use for the data," the company said on Monday. "We actually reject a significant number of apps through this process." Compliance with GDPR rules could cost Facebook a significant amount of money. Deutsche Bank analysts in January estimated that Facebook's overall revenue could be lowered by 4 per cent in a scenario in which 30 per cent of EU users opt out of targeted ads, reducing the effectiveness and likely price of ads shown by 50 per cent. The EU represents 24 per cent of Facebook's ad revenue, so multiplying those figures, the bank said the regulations could have a 4 percent impact on overall Facebook revenue. A December 2017 survey found that only 21 per cent of European consumers know what GDPR is. But after the regulation was explained, 82 per cent of respondents said they plan to exercise their new rights, according to the survey of 7,000 Europeans conducted by Pegasystems Inc, which makes sales and marketing software. Another challenge for social networks are GDPR provisions mandating how companies must obtain permissions. The regulation demands that requests for consent be presented "in an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language." In other words, the days of extensive "terms of service"agreements written in small text will no longer pass muster in Europe, numerous data privacy lawyers told Reuters. In practice, social network users may find themselves seeing more "permissions screens" and being asked to check boxes every time a social network rolls out a new feature. That could depress usage, Facebook Chief Financial Officer David Wehner said at an investor conference last month. "Whenever you walk people through permission screens, there's some potential that people decide they're not going to use the product," Wehner said. "We don't think it will be big, but there could be some implication there." 

[w545]   Facebook user data scandal erases US$50 billion from market cap  Shares of Facebook continued their slide Tuesday as investors feared regulatory repercussions after revelations about the company's mishandling of data on 50 million users. Facebook's stock closed down 2.6 per cent Tuesday, following a 6.8 per cent drop Monday. The decline has wiped out around US$49 billion (S$64.6 billion) of the company's market value since last Friday's closing price, with its market cap currently at US$488.5 billion. Shares recovered from a steeper drop earlier Tuesday, when they fell as much as 6.1 per cent.  /.block Facebook's woes also dragged down Twitter, whose share price tumbled 10.4 per cent Tuesday amid concerns it, too, could be subjected to new government regulations. Shares of Snap, parent company of Snapchat, closed down 2.6 per cent.  /.block The Wall Street selloff comes after reports that Facebook user data was improperly obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm used by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Last Friday, Facebook announced that it kicked Cambridge Analytica and its parent company off the platform, claiming the researcher who provided the data to them violated Facebook's policies. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have denied that the user data was used as part of the firm's work for the Trump campaign. 

[w546]

[w547] 

[w548] As It Happens: Facebook data scandal 

[w549] 

[w550] British lawmakers invite Facebook’s Zuckerberg to explain data policy File: Mark Zuckerberg told to "stop hiding behind his Facebook Page" after reports of data breach. 					 											 A cross-party committee of British lawmakers has asked Facebook Head, Mark Zuckerberg, to explain his firm’s “catastrophic failure of process” on the security of personal data. Damian Collins, who heads Culture, Media and Sports Committee, said he had repeatedly asked Facebook how companies acquired and held on to user data from their site , and particularly if data had been taken without their consent. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk and have been misleading to the committee,’’ Collins, a lawmaker from Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party, said in an open letter to Zuckerberg.   Facebook is still falling after reports of a data breach. It's now down more than 7% https://t.co/YIyijQWNim pic.twitter.com/xt9ln9X27U 	— Bloomberg (@business) March 19, 2018 The committee from the Commons, parliament’s elected lower house, is examining the role of Facebook as part of an inquiry into the role of “fake news” in British politics. In a related move, Information Commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said late Monday that her office was “seeking a warrant to obtain information and access to systems and evidence’’ from Cambridge Analytica (CA). READ:  Facebook rocked by new data breach scandal The CA has been accused of using information from potentially tens of millions of Facebook users without their consent. But, opposition lawmakers said Denham’s advance notice of the warrant could allow the firm to delete evidence of alleged misuse of Facebook user data in U.S. elections. “Giving CA and Facebook a warning to delete files, servers and evidence?’’ opposition Labour lawmaker, David Lammy, wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. Lammy said governments must work together to regulate how internet companies use personal data, because “individual nation-states will struggle to take on transnational tech empires like Facebook”. Denham called for “full understanding of the facts, data flows and data uses,’’ adding that Facebook had agreed to stand down its search of CA’s premises because such search would potentially compromise regulatory investigation. British investigators will examine the use of personal data for political campaigns, including “the acquisition and use of Facebook data by SCL, Doctor Kogan and Cambridge Analytica,” she said.   “Facebook’s only doing something now because I am coming out and speaking out.” Wylie says he is frustrated with the social media company’s response to the data breach. https://t.co/GwcGIMTgWF pic.twitter.com/UW0IQniw2X 	— CNN International (@cnni) March 20, 2018 CA, which has been linked to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, faced a new scandal late Monday after top executives were caught on video apparently bragging about using bribes and entrapment to influence elections. In an undercover sting operation by British broadcaster, Channel 4, Chief Executive, Alexander Nix, appeared to suggest the firm was willing to use, or had already used, “honey traps.” The traps were said to have planted false reports online, hiring hidden subcontractors and setting up fake institutions and websites to gather data. “Now we need to find out if Cambridge Analytica and leaks from Facebook played a key role in Brexit referendum,” Liberal Democrat leader, Vince Cable, said on Twitter on Tuesday. The company rejected allegations made in the “highly misleading” broadcast of exchanges between the CA executives and an undercover reporter posing as a Sri Lankan businessman. “The report is edited and scripted to grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how the company conducts its business,” CA said. The second part of the Channel 4 documentary, scheduled to air late Tuesday, will reportedly feature CA executives boasting about how they helped Trump win the election. 								Facebook's Zuckerberg asked to give evidence on data row 			  A British parliamentary committee requested the Facebook chief to appear before it to explain claims that millions of users' data was harvested.  									Facebook rocked by new data breach scandal 			  Calls for investigations came on both sides of the Atlantic after Facebook responded to the explosive reports of misuse of its data by suspending the account of Cambridge Analytica  									Trump consultant harvested data from 50m Facebook users: reports 			  The profiles apparently represented nearly a quarter of potential US voters in 2014.   


[w551] Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Amid Data Misuse Scandal –  Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Amid Data Misuse Scandal  In this file photo taken on February 27, 2018 A video grab from footage broadcast by the UK Parliament’s Parliamentary Recording Unit (PRU) on February 27, 2018 shows Chief Executive, Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, giving evidence to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee of members of parliament on the subject of fake news at the Houses of Parliament in London on February 27, 2018. HO / PRU / AFP   http://hotel.africa      https://hotels.ng     http://fly.africa Cambridge Analytica, a British communications firm hired by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, said Tuesday it had suspended CEO Alexander Nix “pending a full, independent investigation”. The move follows allegations the company harvested data on 50 million Facebook users to influence the US presidential election and the emergence of undercover recordings of Nix offering so-called dirty tricks services to potential clients against political rivals.   The post Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Amid Data Misuse Scandal appeared first on Channels Television 

[w552] A Facebook shareholder launched a lawsuit against the social network over the Cambridge Analytica scandal 	A Facebook shareholder launched a lawsuit against the social network over the Cambridge Analytica scandal  				Facebook should have told investors about the scandal, says an investor. A Facebook shareholder is suing the company for allegedly misleading investors. The suit is seeking class action status. The investor claims that since Facebook did not inform shareholders about the Cambridge Analytica data scandal, the company omitted facts that have led to a decline in Facebook&apos;s value. Facebook has lost about $50 billion in market value since the scandal broke on Saturday. A Facebook shareholder is suing the social media giant for allegedly misleading investors in the Cambridge Analytica affair that&apos;s currently rocking the social network. Fan Yuan, who owns Facebook stock, filed a lawsuit Tuesday in the District Court of Northern California, located in San Francisco, on behalf of Facebook shareholders. Gizmodo first reported the lawsuit, which is seeking class action status. You can read the full complaint here . On Friday, it was revealed The lawsuit claims that since Facebook knew about the issue for two years and failed to say anything publicly, it&apos;s at fault for not providing enough information to its investors — and, because of that, Facebook is liable for damages, it says. The Federal Trade Commission is looking to investigate the incident. And several lawmakers are increasing the pressure on CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who has been silent so far, to testify on the matter before Congress. 

[w553] Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak 	Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak  The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. The company&apos;s board said CEO Alexander Nix would remain suspended pending a "full, independent investigation" into his involvement in what he was filmed describing as entrapping politicians. The CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the political-research company at the center of a massive Facebook-data scandal , was suspended on Tuesday. An undercover reporter for Britain&apos;s Channel 4 News secretly filmed the CEO, Alexander Nix, offering shadowy services to entrap politicians, as well as boasting about using online propaganda tools, including so-called psychographic modeling techniques, to help Donald Trump win the 2016 US presidential election. The news outlet&apos;s monthslong, multipart investigation into the company is airing this week. "Mr. Nix&apos;s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm, and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation," the board wrote in a statement on Tuesday. The undercover reporter, posing as a fixer for a wealthy client working to elect politicians in Sri Lanka, filmed Nix and his colleagues over four meetings from November to January. Facebook recently suspended Cambridge Analytica over an incident involving its harvesting of data from 50 million profiles. Cambridge Analytica — founded by Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist, and Robert Mercer, a top GOP donor who has sunk at least $15 million into the company — is said to have used personal data gleaned from tens of millions of profiles to predict the behavior of individual American voters. The company&apos;s board said it would launch an internal investigation into allegations of Nix&apos;s wrongdoing and make the conclusions public. In the meantime, Alexander Tayler, the company&apos;s chief data officer, will serve as the acting CEO. In one exchange filmed by the undercover Channel 4 News reporter, Nix said he had met Trump "many times" and described what the firm undertook for his campaign. "We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting — we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy," Nix said. In another conversation, Tayler argued that the firm&apos;s work helped Trump emerge victorious. "When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes but won the Electoral College vote, that&apos;s down to the data and the research," he said. A Cambridge Analytica spokesman told Channel 4 News: "CA has never claimed it won the election for President Trump. This is patently absurd." 
[w554] 

[w555]     A British election consultancy firm preyed on Kenyans' fear of ethnic violence and joblessness to help President Uhuru Kenyatta win the August 2017 poll. According to a video secretly recorded and broadcast by Britain’s Channel 4 News on Monday, Cambridge Analytica (CA), a data analytics firm, deployed psychological manipulation to influence voters in both the 2013 and 2017 presidential elections. The company has denied the claims. The news channel said it mounted a sting operation in which it secretly recorded top Cambridge Analytica executives saying they could use bribes, former spies, and Ukrainian sex workers to entrap politicians around the world. In Kenya, Cambridge Analytica interviewed 47,000 people to assess Kenyans' fears, then used the information to engineer an online media onslaught against Uhuru's opponents. The firm worked with a local research partner to deliver results for Uhuru in 2013 and then replicated the strategy in the 2017 polls. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Political research Explaining how it worked in Kenya, the officials said that ahead of the 2013 presidential election, the firm designed and implemented the largest political research project in East Africa. It sampled and interviewed 47,000 people in a three-month nationwide data collection exercise. From this process, it drafted what it described as an effective campaign strategy based on the electorate’s need for jobs and fear of tribal violence. “The 2013 Kenyan election was the first national election to be held after the electoral violence of 2008,” Cambridge Analytica said in a brief.   “It was also the first election held under Kenya’s new Constitution, which redrew Kenya’s constituency boundaries and brought in new electoral requirements,” said the statement, published on its website. Cambridge Analytica said it was contracted by a leading Kenyan political party to conduct the large-scale research project. “The aim was to provide the party with a comprehensive plan to shape its election strategy,” the firm said. It worked with a local research partner to train a team of enumerators to ensure regional variations in language and social customs were respected during data collection. “Having designed the research methodology and sampling approach, and finalised the questionnaire, CA piloted the survey to a small sample of respondents. This determined that our research tool was fit for use across a national research sample," the firm stated. Following the data analysis, the firm said the research gave Uhuru's campaign a profile of the Kenyan electorate, including key national and local political issues, levels of trust in key politicians, voting behaviour and intentions, and preferred information channels. Cambridge Analytica said its analysis also segmented the country's population into key target audiences. Under-utilised youth “Of the audiences identified, our work highlighted that the youth cohort were an under-utilised party asset that could be highly influential if mobilised,” the brief said. To connect with this audience, CA’s communications and strategy team devised an online social media campaign to generate a hugely active online following.  A global privacy protection organisation, Privacy International, has suggested that the data analytics firm was paid Sh600 million ($6 million) for three months work in the 2017 election. In an expose run by Channel 4 this week, Mark Turnbull, a managing director for Cambridge Analytica, admitted that his firm secretly stage-managed Uhuru's election.   “I think we wrote all the speeches and we staged the whole thing - so just about every element of this candidate,” Turnbull said. The CA executive boasts that Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL), have worked in more than 200 elections across the world, including Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India, and Argentina. “It’s no good fighting an election campaigns on facts… because actually it’s all about emotion,” the executive is heard saying in the clip. Last year, reports emerged linking the firm to a toxic online campaign targeting National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga titled Stop Raila Save Kenya…….The Future of Kenya is in Your Hands. Leaked memo Earlier, a leaked memo spoke of plans to run an on-line campaign to portray NASA as violent. The memo also suggested emotional manipulation of Jubilee Party supporters to ensure they turned up to vote. CA dismissed the memo as a fabrication. Yesterday National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale dismissed the claims of the firm's involvement in the 2013 and 2017 elections as 'hogwash' and 'lacking substance'.  “Those claims are just hogwash. We went out to every village and town in this country, we sold our agenda of development, we merged our parties and campaigned on the platform of unity and development, the people of Kenya gave us victory,” Mr Duale said. Duale argued that most voters did not rely on the internet and social media enough to make political decisions during elections. “Less than 4 per cent have access to the internet. The so-called Cambridge Analytical had no bearing on our victory. We campaigned hard and won fair and square,” he said. Jubilee's secretary general, Raphael Tuju, termed the reports as 'speculation', saying the party did not wish to comment further. 

[w556] Murathe and Tuju differ on hire of British propaganda firm  Kenya 								Jubilee party bosses clash over hiring of feared propaganda company 	Tough times for Jubilee President Uhuru Kenyatta (right) with his deputy William Ruto (PSCU)   Jubilee party bosses have issued clashing responses over the role of the disgraced propaganda company Cambridge Analytica in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaigns. A British broadcasting Company (Channel 4) on Monday released an investigative documentary where Cambridge Analytica executives were caught on camera admitting they had staged Kenyatta’s campaigns in 2013 and in 2017. In response to the expose, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju denied that the party had sought any services from the controversial firm, terming the claims as far-fetched.   “ These things, the whole thing with Cambridge Analytica, don’t you think it is just far-fetched? It is very far-fetched ,” Tuju was quoted by the Nation. The Secretary General’s position was in sharp contradiction to a confession made by Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe who stated that the ruling coalition had indirectly contracted Cambridge Analytical for branding services . “ They were basically branding and all that but not directly ,” Murathe stated in an interview with Reuters . The branding services were provided by SCL which is an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica.   On his part, Cambridge Analytica Mark Turnbull claimed to have done a lot more than branding. " Kenyatta campaign which we ran in 2013 and 2017…We have rebranded the entire party twice, written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys – huge amounts of research, analyses, (and) messaging .” “ Then we’d write all the speeches and we’d stage the whole thing; so just every element of his (Kenyatta) campaign ," Turnbull told an undercover reporter. Turnbull and another official were also caught on tape confessing that they use prostitutes, spies and fake news to help their clients win elections. 

[w557] NASA speaks after Cambridge Analytica admits working for Uhuru  								What NASA want US & UK to do after Cambridge Analytica confirmed working for Uhuru  				Here are the full details NASA leader Raila Odinga and CEO Norman Magaya (Facebook)   NASA CEO Norman Magaya is now pleading with the US and UK Governments to open a full investigation against Data Company Cambridge Analytica after an explosive  exposé  disclosed how it helped President Uhuru Kenyatta during the 2017 General Election. In an undercover investigation titled: Cambridge Analytica Uncovered: Secret filming reveals election tricks , the firm’s top bosses admit to being the key drivers of Mr. Kenyatta’s campaigns . Alex Taylor, Cambridge’s Chief Data Officer, and Managing Director Mark Turnbull were caught on tape detailing the role they played in Kenya’s elections. Cambridge Analytica Uncovered: Secret filming reveals election tricks (Facebook)   Mr. Turnbull disclosed that they entered into a contract with President Kenyatta party in 2013 and continued during 2017 election when he vied for a second term. According to the Managing Director,  Cambridge single-handedly conducted Mr. Kenyatta’s campaigns by first re-branding the party twice. “We ran the Kenyatta campaign in 2013 and 2017. We have re-branded the entire party twice,”  Turnbull said. Mr. Turnbull stated that Cambridge was also involved in writing Jubilee’s manifesto, conducting surveys, preparing Mr. Kenyatta’s speeches among other duties. “We have written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50, 000 surveys. Huge amounts of research, analysis, messaging. Then we would write all the speeches and we would stage the whole thing so just about every element of his campaign,”  Turnbull said. President Uhuru Kenyatta (right) and Deputy President William Ruto (left) (Facebook)   The firm is accused of using damaging information about politicians to push certain agenda to the electorates. The main purpose is to play with the citizenry’s emotions by either creating fear or wooing undecided voters towards a candidate. “They will find all the skeletons in his closet quietly, discreetly and give you report,”  Turnbull reveals how Cambridge works with spies to gain information. Speaking to the BBC, Mr. Magaya castigated the Data firm claiming that it had a hand in subverting the people’s will in Kenya. NASA CEO Norman Magaya (Facebook)   "This was a criminal enterprise which clearly wanted to subvert the will of the people— through manipulation, through propaganda,"  he was quoted by the BBC .  The NASA CEO mentioned that Cambridge Analytica must be held liable for spreading toxic propaganda during the election period. "There must be criminal culpability," Magaya said. Last year, Kenyans on Facebook were bombarded with alarming information concerning NASA leader Raila Odinga who was the main rival of Mr. Kenyatta. Countless videos were posted online describing how dangerous a man Raila was if elected to be the President of Kenya. The video portrayed the former Prime Minister as a leader who will drag Kenya into poverty, violence and dictator regime. However, Cambridge denied any involvement in the production or publication of such videos.

[w558] 

[w561]  Facebook Besieged By Wall Street, Washington And Europe  Facebook Inc.’s grim week is getting grimmer. The company on Tuesday was beset on two continents by governments suddenly focused on data security and investors unliked its stock to the point that it lost $60 billion in value. The Menlo Park, California, company, whose social network is a ubiquitous venue for social and political life, is drawing the unaccustomed unwelcome attention after the disclosure that it released the personal data of 50 million users to an analytics firm that helped elect President Donald Trump. The company, Cambridge Analytica, has been implicated in dirty tricks in elections around the globe. Facebook has struggled to respond to the fast-moving imbroglio, and even Facebook workers have been in the dark. The company held a staff meeting Tuesday to address their questions about what Facebook knew and when. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg plans to address employees on Friday at a previously scheduled all-hands meeting. For those not privy to the internal meetings, here are the latest developments: Parliaments Request Mr. Zuckerberg’s Presence CEO Zuckerberg may have to do a tour of European parliaments to appease lawmakers. Damian Collins, head of a U.K. parliament committee investigating the impact of social media on recent elections, invited Zuckerberg to answer for a “catastrophic failure of process.” Shortly thereafter an invitation followed from European Parliament President Antonio Tajani. Separately, EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said she also plans to discuss the matter with Facebook during a visit in the U.S. this week while Italian telecommunications regulator AGCOM requested Facebook to provide information on data use. Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg haven’t yet spoken publicly about the data leak, despite the global firestorm. When Zuckerberg addresses staff on Friday, he’s certain to face questions about the controversy. U.S. Regulators Would Like a Word The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is looking into whether Facebook broke the terms of a 2011 consent decree. The FTC is the lead agency for enforcing companies’ adherence to their own privacy policies and could fine the company if it finds Facebook violated the agreement. Facebook said it would conduct staff-level briefings of six congressional committees Tuesday and Wednesday. That includes House and Senate judiciary committees, as well as the commerce and intelligence panels of both chambers. Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that that it would "be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors." The attorneys general of New York and Massachusetts sent demand letters to the company, the first step in a joint investigation. A loss as big as a car (company) Facebook’s stock price fell as much as 6.2 percent in New York before closing 2.6 percent lower. The stock has slumped more than 9 percent since Friday’s close, giving up about $50 billion in market capitalization . That’s almost as much as the total value of Tesla Inc. The world’s largest social media network was sued in San Francisco federal court Tuesday by shareholders in a class action who said they suffered losses after the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users. Free fall aside, Wall Street analysts remain upbeat . Buy recommendations continue to roll in and price targets reflect a potential return of 35 percent. Out of the 43 analysts who recommend buying Facebook shares, not one has downgraded the stock over the crisis. However, many acknowledge that bad publicity could keep the stock under pressure.   Cambridge Analytica The political consulting company whose own troubles engendered Facebook’s was also rocked Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica’s board suspended CEO Alexander Nix after he was shown on video discussing entrapping politicians with bribes and prostitutes and spreading disinformation. Britain’s Channel 4 News aired the third part of an undercover investigation that showed Nix bragging of running research, data and targeting for the Trump campaign and deriding U.S. lawmakers. He also said the company used an email server to communicate with clients and eliminate evidence of contact. Kenya’s opposition party demanded a probe after Channel 4’s disclosure that Cambridge Analytica spread propaganda amid election-related violence that left 92 people dead. Signing Out Facebook users don’t have to look far for instructions on how to extricate themselves or their data: Across the Twitterverse and blogospheres, outraged users have said they’re deleting their accounts and how-to instructions are making the rounds. Tech sites have published guides on how to deactivate or control carefully curated social media accounts. The brushfire comes at an inauspicious moment. Daily active user growth in the U.S. and Canada declined from 185 million in the third quarter to 184 million in the period, the company reported last quarter. That signals the first loss on a quarter-over-quarter basis in the company’s history.    

[w562]British lawmakers asks Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg to clarify data breach

[w563]  Facebook Sued By Investors Over Voter-Profile Harvesting  Facebook Inc.’s failure to safeguard privacy was blamed in an investor lawsuit for a slump in its share price that followed the revelation user data was harvested without permission by a research firm connected to U.S. President Donald Trump. The world’s largest social media network was sued in San Francisco federal court on Tuesday by shareholders in a class action who said they suffered losses after the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based firm that aided Trump, improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users. Facebook fell as much as 5.2 percent to $175.41 Monday in New York, wiping out all of the year’s gains so far. It was the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 12. The stock dropped another 2.6 percent Tuesday to close at $168.15, after Bloomberg reported that the company is under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission, citing a person familiar with the matter. The suit would represent people who bought shares of Facebook from Feb. 3, 2017, when Facebook filed its annual report and cited security breaches and improper access to user data, through March 19, two days after a New York Times report revealed how data from Cambridge Analytica obtained through Facebook was used without “proper disclosures or permission.” The stock has tumbled more than 9 percent this week. “We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” said Paul Grewal, deputy general counsel at Facebook. “We will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” he said in a statement.   ‘Potential Culpability’ Throughout that period, “defendants made false or misleading statements and failed to disclose that Facebook violated its own data privacy policies by allowing third parties access to personal data of millions of Facebook users without their consent,” according to the complaint. Darren Robbins, a securities class action lawyer who isn’t involved in the case, called the Cambridge Analytics case “troubling” for Facebook and the country overall. “They have potential culpability in a number of areas,” Robbins said about the social network by phone before the lawsuit was filed. “Whether liability from users, government regulators or investors follows, there are implications for our society given the unique position Facebook occupies in the daily lives of Americans.” Investors may be able to sue Facebook successfully if they can show the company induced them to invest based in part on false, misleading or incomplete information regarding practices that might have averted the user privacy issues, Robbins said. “That is dependent upon the representations made about the types of actions Facebook has taken to protect this information,” he said. “If the representations made publicly are inconsistent with what actually occurred, is there potential liability? The answer is yes.” Facebook’s Long History of Resolving Privacy Claims on the Cheap News of the improper data collection is the latest in a string of discomforting revelations about the ways in which the network may have been used to affect the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Facebook is under fire over the proliferation of “fake news” on its site and Russian actors leveraging the platform for propaganda. The shares dropped Monday amid an outcry over the data collection, which occurred with a U.K. professor claiming to be gathering information for "academic" purposes. Instead, it was used to develop techniques deployed by the Trump campaign, in a venture backed by wealthy Republican donor Robert Mercer. Personality Quiz Facebook said on Friday that the professor, Aleksandr Kogan, asked people to take a personality quiz that he claimed was for academic purposes. A total of 270,000 signed up for the quiz, and in doing so permitted Kogan to access data for both those individuals and their friends, exposing profiles of 50 million people, according to the New York Times. “The claim that this is a data breach is completely false,” Grewal, the deputy general counsel, wrote in a March 17 post. “People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated and passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.” Although the quiz didn’t violate Facebook’s rules at the time, Kogan breached them by passing that data along to Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said. The company discovered the misuse in 2015 and shut off the professor’s access and asked the research company to certify that it had deleted the data at issue. The social network said Friday it learned the information wasn’t erased, and Cambridge Analytica denied on Saturday that it still had access to the data. The research firm used the data to create tools and techniques that were put to use in the 2016 election campaign, according to the New York Times. The social network is also battling privacy claims from consumers in San Francisco federal court over the use of biometric data, and last month it agreed to pay $35 million to settle claims that its officers and directors overstated prospects for earnings and growth in the mobile market ahead of its 2012 initial public offering. The company didn’t admit to any wrongdoing. Politicians on both sides of the Atlantic have called on Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to explain. Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey opened a civil probe and Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen has issued a written inquiry to Facebook to answer questions about the matter. European Union Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova plans to meet with Facebook officials in Washington on March 21. She called the data misuse “horrifying, if confirmed” and “not acceptable.” The case is Yuan v. Facebook Inc., 3:18-cv-01725, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).   

[w564]  Facebook Is Said to Agree to Brief House Panel on Misuse of Data  Facebook Inc. officials have tentatively agreed to brief House Judiciary Committee members as soon as Wednesday on the use of personal data of millions of their users by a firm hired as a consultant to President Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, according to a congressional official familiar with the discussions. Details are still being worked out about how and when such a briefing would take place, as well as who would appear from the company, according to the official, who asked for anonymity because the discussions aren’t public. Democrats on the committee are demanding that Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, schedule a hearing on revelations that the company Cambridge Analytica exploited information from millions of Facebook users without their permission. In a letter to Goodlatte, top Judiciary Committee Democrat Jerrold Nadler of New York said that neither Alexander Nix, the chief executive officer of Cambridge Analytica, nor Brad Parscale -- who ran the 2016 Trump campaign’s digital operations and has been named Trump’s campaign manager for 2020 -- have responded to Democratic requests for information. Nadler played a prominent role in securing the briefing from Facebook, said the offical. The Senate Judiciary Committee also is in the process of scheduling a briefing from Facebook, said George Hartmann, spokesman for Chairman Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican. 


[w565] Facebook data breach: Why Indians should be wary of Cambridge Analytica scandal  Facebook and the UK-based data analytics company Cambridge Analytica (and its related company, SCL) are in the eye of the storm after a sting by Channel 4 reporters and reports in The Guardian, The Observer and The New York Times showed how big data and dirty tricks are par for the course in fighting elections today. The newspapers had reported that Cambridge Analytica illegally harvested data on 50 million Facebook users, and used them in helping Donald Trump win his election. The firm has denied this. The Channel 4 sting brought out a video which purportedly shows the top management of Cambridge Analytica purportedly telling the undercover reporter about how they can use extortion and honey traps to damage the prospects of those standing in opposition to their clients. Again, Cambridge Analytica has denied this and claimed that the video is heavily edited and shows a distorted view of the meetings. At any rate, an investigation is on by UK authorities and meanwhile Facebook has suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform pending an investigation, and Facebook itself has not come out smelling of roses on the way it manages data of people using the social network. Why is the Cambridge Analytica affair important for India? For a number of reasons. One, using social media and data analytics has already become increasingly important since the last elections. The social media campaign used by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP in - and since the - 2014 general elections have provided a template for other politicians and parties on how they need to get their act together in the future elections. Equally important, there were reports that the Congress may have been talking to Cambridge Analytica about the 2019 elections, and even if it doesn't use them now after the scandal, it would definitely look at how modern elections are fought across the world. Data analytics has become as important in fighting elections today as all the other traditional methods. Data analysis was used heavily in deciding strategy even in India during the 2014 general elections, the subsequent Bihar assembly elections and even in the UP elections. The use of data and targeting of individual voters is only going to increase as data on voters become increasingly available. If data is the new oil as different businessmen and politicians love to proclaim, a lot of companies ranging from platforms like Google, Amazon and Facebook and data analytics firms and independent consultants are building their businesses around it. In the past too, data was used in Indian elections (and in elections across the world) though in a much less scientific manner. Putting up candidates in seats based on the case calculations of voters in that particular seat has been popular in elections for long. What is new is that the current firms allow for individual targeting of voters according to the data trails they have left on the internet. A far greater scientific analysis is available now on an individual's preferences and likes and dislikes than ever before. Google uses it to understand and refine its advertising aimed at you and Amazon uses it to recommend things you need to buy. But it is only in the last few years that firms like Cambridge Analytica have sprung up to help fight elections. Cambridge Analytica may or may not be used by the BJP or Congress or any of the other parties in the next round of elections. But make no mistake, the strategy of data analytics and individual targeting they use will be used by all politicians in all future elections. 

[w566]  Facebook Data: FTC Probing Facebook For Use Of Personal Data  Facebook Inc. is drawing scrutiny from the main U.S. privacy watchdog and half a dozen congressional committees over how the personal data of 50 million users was obtained by a data analytics firm that helped elect President Donald Trump. Facebook said it would conduct staff-level briefings of six committees Tuesday and Wednesday. That includes meetings with the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, as well as the commerce and intelligence committees of both chambers. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is also probing whether Facebook violated terms of a 2011 consent decree over its handling of personal user data that was transferred to Cambridge Analytica without users’ knowledge, according to a person familiar with the matter. The FTC will be sending a letter to the company, another person said. Facebook slumped on the news, extending Monday’s decline. The FTC is the lead U.S. agency for enforcing companies’ adherence to their own privacy policies and could fine the company into the millions of dollars if it finds Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree . New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced on Tuesday that he and Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey had sent a demand letter to Facebook as part of a joint probe stemming from the fallout. Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen announced his own probe Monday. Amid the scrutiny, Facebook will be confronting immediate demands by Congress. In addition to the briefings, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he wants to hear testimony from Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, as well as Twitter Inc. CEO Jack Dorsey. Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said any decision about calling Zuckerberg to appear before the panel is farther off.   Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who also serves on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Tuesday that she has "grown increasingly concerned as we’re learning more and more about the manipulation of data, the harvesting of data from Facebook, the ads that were placed to sow the seeds of discord in this country." The panel has previously heard testimony into Russia’s use of Facebook to attempt to meddle in the 2016 election. "I believe that Facebook, Twitter, the other social media platforms have a lot of questions to answer," she said. Cambridge Denial Cambridge Analytica’s board announced Tuesday it was suspending CEO Alexander Nix pending an independent investigation into his comments in an undercover video by London’s Channel 4 News. Nix told the reporters, who posed as potential clients, that the firm’s services included the potential to try to induce targets with bribes, entrapment by prostitutes and spreading disinformation. In an earlier statement, Cambridge Analytica said it “strongly” denied “false allegations” in the media and said that the Facebook data at the center of the scandal wasn’t used as part of services provided to the Trump campaign. Under the terms of the 2011 settlement with the FTC, Facebook agreed to get user consent for certain changes to privacy settings as part of its resolution of federal charges that it deceived consumers and forced them to share more personal information than they intended. That complaint arose after the company changed some user settings without notifying its customers, according to an FTC statement at the time. ‘Stronger Protections’ "The FTC takes the allegations that the data of millions of people were used without proper authorization very seriously," FTC Commissioner Terrell McSweeny, a Democrat, said in a statement Tuesday. "The allegations also highlight the limited rights Americans have to their data. Consumers need stronger protections for the digital age such as comprehensive data security and privacy laws, transparency and accountability for data brokers, and rights to and control over their data." Earlier, an FTC spokeswoman said that the agency can’t comment on whether it’s investigating but said that it takes "any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously." The people who described the FTC’s moves asked not to be identified because the details aren’t public. If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine the company more than $40,000 a day per violation. Facebook previously said in a statement it rejects "any suggestion of violation of the consent decree." Facebook fell 2.6 percent to $168.15 in New York, the lowest level since September. That follows a drop of 6.8 percent Monday that was the company’s largest since March 2014.   Despite the outcry by lawmakers, GOP-controlled congressional committees haven’t demanded formal hearings with Facebook executives. Senator John Thune of South Dakota, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said a decision on public hearings would be made after the Facebook briefings this week. A key question will be appetite by the committees, several of which have already interviewed top Facebook executives, for a public appearance by the company’s leadership, including Zuckerberg. The founder has remained essentially invisible in recent days, even within Facebook. Senators Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, and John Kennedy, a Louisiana Republican, repeated their bipartisan call Monday for testimony by the CEOs of Facebook, Twitter and Alphabet Inc.’s Google before the Judiciary Committee. The Facebook officials currently set to brief members of Congress include the company’s deputy general counsel and deputy chief privacy officer, said a congressional official. ‘Bad Actors’ Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that that it would "be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors." "We have a lot of questions about how this information was used, whether it was given to Russia and whether Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign communicated with WikiLeaks," Feinstein added. Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive officer faced questions during a meeting with the House Intelligence Committee in December about whether he sought material from WikiLeaks publisher Julian Assange that was stolen from computers of the Democratic National Committee and from John Podesta, who chaired Democrat Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. In a letter Tuesday to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, top House Judiciary Committee Democrat Jerrold Nadler of New York said that neither Nix nor Brad Parscale, who ran the 2016 Trump campaign’s digital operations and hired Cambridge Analytica as a consultant, have responded to Democratic requests for information. Parscale has since been named the manager of Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign. Whistleblower Interview Democrats on the House intelligence panel led by Adam Schiff of California say they will continue their work. Schiff on Tuesday said a Cambridge Analytica whistleblower, Christopher Wiley, has agreed to be interviewed by them. The Facebook revelations have also prompted transatlantic reaction. The chairman of a UK parliamentary committee announced Tuesday he was requesting that Facebook’s Zuckerberg, who has remained silent for days, appear before the panel to supplement prior testimony by the company’s executives. White House spokesman Raj Shah said Tuesday that Trump “believes that Americans’ privacy should be protected” and supports federal investigations into the incident. “If Congress wants to look into the matter or other agencies want to look into the matter, we welcome that," Shah said on Fox News. Asked if Zuckerberg should testify, Shah demurred. "Without knowing the specifics, it’s difficult to talk about whether an individual should testify,” he said. On Tuesday, a Facebook executive answered questions from employees on the issues during internal town hall meeting at the company’s Menlo Park, California, headquarters.    


[w567]  Forget Aadhaar, Facebook threat real: What Cambridge-Analytica case confirms 

[w568]      Facebook ‘being investigated by FTC’ Facebook ‘being investigated by FTC’    The US Federal Trade Commission is reported to be investigating Facebook after allegations that 50 million users’ private information was misused by a political consultancy firm. Cambridge Analytica (CA), hired by the Trump campaign in the 2016 US election, has been accused of taking the personal data unknown to users. CA head Alexander Nix has now been suspended by the company board. The move came amid allegations the firm may have broken US electoral law. CA, which is based in London, denies any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Facebook’s stock has continued to slide, following a steep decline on Monday (March 19). The British and European parliaments have called on Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence to them, and the social network is due to brief congressional aides today (March 21). According to Foreign media, Zuckerberg did not attend a Facebook staff briefing on the crisis at its Californian headquarters yesterday (March 20), which was led by deputy general counsel Paul Grewal instead.  ​   


[w569]    	In a meeting with the head of Cambridge Analytica — the political data firm used by the Trump campaign in 2016 — reporters from NBC News’ U.K. partner ITN Channel 4 News posed as potential clients interested in changing the outcome of the Sri Lankan elections. 	According to reports by NBC Chicago, the reporters, who were trying to find out how the company operated, quickly learned about the novel and deceptive methods employed by the company, including bribes, blackmail, and misinformation campaigns. The findings were broadcast by the network on Monday. 	On hidden camera, the reporters recorded Alexander Nix, chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, discussing the idea of hypothetically entrapping an opposition leader. 	He described how the company could record a person accepting a bribe, "an offer he can't refuse," or "send some girls around to the candidate’s house." 

[w570] UK MPs ask Facebook's Zuckerberg to testify on data row


[w571] UK seeking warrant to access Cambridge Analytica servers            


[w572]         Facebook’s Zuckerberg to address staff Friday at regular meeting    Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will address employees of the social network on Friday at a previously scheduled all-hands meeting, where he’s likely to face questions about the controversy over user data improperly obtained by political-advertising firm Cambridge Analytica. Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg haven’t yet spoken publicly about the data leak, which has set off a firestorm of criticism around the world. On Tuesday, Facebook vice president and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal fielded inquiries from employees on the situation, according to a person familiar with the matter. Workers had questions about what Facebook knew and when, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the meeting was internal. Grewal’s comments were broadcast from the company’s headquarters in Menlo Park, California, to staff around the world via an "FYI Live" video -- a common way for Facebook leaders and employees to communicate. Facebook confirmed that a meeting occurred, without giving details. Zuckerberg and Sandberg, the company’s top executives, didn’t take part on Tuesday. Grewal authored a Friday evening blog post from Facebook explaining that the company was suspending Cambridge Analytica, the advertising data firm that helped Donald Trump win the U.S. presidential election in 2016. Grewal wrote that Facebook had reason to believe Cambridge Analytica didn’t delete data it obtained from users years ago without their explicit consent. His post was published ahead of reports about the data leak that were set to come out the next day from the New York Times and the Guardian’s Observer. Facebook, frequently criticized for its public communication tactics, has historically worked to be transparent with its employees, encouraging them not to leak because they receive so much confidential internal information. Aside from the FYI Live videos, Facebook has also been answering questions via an internal group called "Wait What? Ask PR."  In the group, staff are encouraged to ask questions about news reports, and critique decisions about what to say publicly. “Mark, Sheryl and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue," a Facebook representative said in a statement following the meeting. "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information."            


[w573]         Amazon just passed Alphabet to become the world's second most valuable company  Amazon has passed Alphabet and now trails just Apple among the list of the world's most valuable companies. The e-commerce giant rose 2.7 percent on Tuesday lifting its stock market value to $768 billion. Alphabet, the parent of Google, fell 0.4 percent and is now valued at $762.5 billion. While the U.S. tech mega-caps have rallied in the past year, Amazon's performance has dwarfed them all, with the stock surging 85 percent over the past 12 months, including 35 percent to start 2018. Investors have been piling into Amazon, betting that the company's growing and very profitable cloud computing business will provide the cash needed for investments in original content, physical stores and continuing to build data centers and warehouses. Meanwhile, Facebook's plunge has dropped the social network's market value below Berkshire Hathaway. Facebook, now the seventh most valuable company, has lost more than 9 percent of its market capitalization in the past two days after revelations on Friday and over the weekend that Cambridge Analytica had misused data tied to 50 million Facebook users. Microsoft is the fourth biggest company by market cap, followed by China's Tencent.     


[w574]  Facebook to hook stream viewers with built-in rewards system  Facebook to hook stream viewers with built-in rewards system  A new suite of software from Facebook allows game developers to attract viewers of livestreamed broadcasts with in-game rewards and integrate Facebook Analytics directly into their games. Facebook used the annual Game Developers Conference to unveil its new Games SDK. The Software Development Kit is designed to increase engagement and embed app events and Facebook Analytics into PC and mobile games.  Massively multiplayer online game Crowfall , in paid beta since 2017, is one of the titles used to illustrate Facebook’s announcement, with multiplayer action game “Paladins” being another, while Overwatch and World of Warcraft developer Blizzard was also cited. The livestreaming component of Facebook’s Games SDK will allow players to livestream directly from a game to Facebook “in a matter of seconds,” the company wrote in a March 19 update. In the near future, video clips will be shareable to Facebook Pages, Groups and Profiles. Players (and developers) are being incentivized to use the streaming feature via a reward system built into the SDK. Facebook invites game makers to “[curate and grant] free, in-game rewards for viewers that tune in during livestreams.” The rewards system tacitly invites viewers to then play those games themselves, in order to redeem the virtual item at the very least. Facebook is also offering to provide developers with an enhancement to its Facebook Login and Facebook Friend Finder features. The social media company wants players and game developers to focus attention on Facebook’s network via Key Player Stats, through which players can post their performance metrics to a Group and find others to play with. Thirdly, App Events and Facebook Analytics provide the promise that developers will be able to better optimize the way their games work. The Games SDK announcement came as Facebook was being accused of wilfully ignoring the activity of Cambridge Analytica, a political consultancy firm that aggressively leveraged Facebook’s developer-side systems in order to influence millions upon millions of US voters. It did so through the covert harvesting and analysis of profile data in the lead-up to the 2016 US Presidential Election, according to a whistleblower.

[w575] Yoursay: With Cambridge Analytica, the world of big data just got murkier       Yoursay: With Cambridge Analytica, the world of big data just got murkier  ‘No scruples as to how you win as long as you win.’ 'Sex, lies and bribes' - Trump's election consultants admit to working in M'sia HP Looi: Every honest political operative should now already be trained in the black art of ‘kompromat’ - the Russian KGB/FSK black art of compromising politicians using “honey traps” and other compromising material. Security training should now be mandatory for every opposition politician. This includes email security, avoiding honey traps (especially when overseas) and ostensible offers of “free money.” The only good which may come out of this is that only determined, honest and clean politicians who are immune to temptations will survive. Kelate: Those in Cambridge Analytica have sold their souls. As a citizen, there is so much anger in me to see that those in power are so bent on evil to win elections at all costs. Cogito Ergo Sum: And this is how GE14 will be won. No scruples as to how you win as long as you win. Clever Voter: It’s an open secret that an effective election campaign requires combined analytics of market segments and communicating key proposition highlights. Help has no ethical standards, it involves even social media, and offering incentives is just one of the many forms of this. It is common practice, even during the recent US presidential election . So what if these experts help out in a landscape designed for kleptocrats, whose interests involve hundreds if not thousands of dependents. The opposition has no less access to such expertise, but with technology and the right expertise, one could perhaps assess its chances better. Already, blatant promises of money and contracts have started, and with no end to such practices, it is really up to the voters. Many are gullible falling for such promises. Lies, sex, and power are not beneath politicians eager and anxious to enter this big-time business. It is unlikely that the stakes will go any lower anytime soon, and it’s a common knowledge that money does help win elections. Anonymous 568201438363345: Now that we know of this thing, besides complaining to all the irrelevant parties, I am interested to know what Pakatan Harapan is going to do to counter this? Probably nothing, since a few of their leaders may have benefited from Cambridge Analytica’s services too. Kangkung: One thing Cambridge Analytica or any data company cannot change is the fact that Malaysian Official 1 (MO1) has allegedly stolen billions from the rakyat and in GE14, the Umno government under MO1 must be shown the exit door. Did you manipulate GE13, Bersatu's Wan Saiful asks Najib VGV: According to Harapan leaders, the same tactic "may be used" in the coming 14th general election. If it is indeed true that Cambridge Analytica’s services were used in GE13, then with the cat already out of the bag after the international revelations in the US and UK, it won’t work this time. So what’s next? Will Cambridge Analytica have to come up with new ideas to win GE14? Because it seems like those in power will do anything to remain in power. GE14: The powers-that-be are that desperate this time. Through the redelineation of electoral boundaries and other manipulative tactics, there is no doubt which side will be is favoured to win. Only the will of the people can stop it. No one else can save our beloved country from all these alleged conspirators and collaborators. Anonymous 568201438363345: What Cambridge Analytica did can potentially change gullible minds. Gerrymandering, on the other hand… 51 Kebabs: Let’s be clear, Cambridge Analytica probably only flooded social media users’ news feeds with propaganda. They didn’t change anyone’s votes, nor interfere with the process. The “honey traps” were not even done over here, but overseas. If Umno hiring Cambridge Analytica is so bad, then what about the opposition’s use of Invoke?  Come on, can you expect us to believe that the then Umno number two had no knowledge about his coalition hiring Cambridge Analytica? Super sleuth Lim Guan Eng should investigate the matter – surely, he can produce some incriminating photos. Mano: If what Wan Saiful and the Harapan leaders are saying is true, taxpayer money is being used to stay in power to allegedly loot even more taxpayer money. As one tycoon has said, this “business” model is the easiest as it requires no capital, and with all losses socialised. Cambridge Analytica - Muhyiddin in the dark, says Najib does things on his own Anonymous_0c358617: It's funny that neither Bersatu president Muhyiddin Yassin nor deputy president Mukhriz Mahathir know anything about Cambridge Analytica. You can’t have it both ways; either the accusations are true, or they are false. VGV: Muhyiddin must have been "played out" quite cleverly by Prime Minister Najib Abdul Razak for not letting him know all his "secret" dealings, although you were the BN election director then. And we may not know of his other alleged illegal activities that were done behind the backs of many Umno leaders then. 

[w576]          Cambridge Analytica's Board Suspends CEO Nix Amid Inquiry    Cambridge Analytica said it suspended Chief Executive Officer Alexander Nix after the executive, whose data company rose to international fame helping Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election, was caught on camera boasting about the firm’s willingness to use bribes, entrapment with sex workers and other possibly illegal tactics to undermine political candidates. The U.K.-based political-advertising firm’s board said Tuesday that Nix’s suspension is pending an investigation into his comments - which are airing this week after a four-monthlong undercover operation by Channel 4 News - and other allegations surrounding the firm. Cambridge Analytica has come under fire in recent days following reports that it improperly harvested data from tens of millions of Facebook Inc. users, then failed to destroy the information when confronted to do so. Cambridge Analytica has a history of dubious election tricks, and the firm has been prolific in securing international elections work - and often felt no need to hide its tactics. Last year, Nix told Bloomberg News that his company was involved in as many as 10 campaigns for prime minister and president every year, including in Asia, Africa, Europe and South America. According to documents given to prospective clients, for a campaign in Latvia, the British affiliate of Cambridge Analytica known as SCL Group ran a disinformation operation designed to stoke ethnic tensions between Latvians and ethnic Russians, blaming Russians for unemployment and helping a nationalist candidate to victory. But the firm’s effectiveness has long been in question. While controversy has swirled around Cambridge Analytica’s role in helping Trump win the American presidency, it wasn’t until this week, when Nix’s latest comments aired, that the firm’s techniques caught up with him. Nix was recorded on camera by Channel 4 News reporters, who posed as potential clients looking to influence elections in Sri Lanka. In one exchange, videos show Nix, whose connection to Trump’s victory minted him and his firm as data wizards, appearing to downplay Cambridge Analytica’s data-mining services and tout more old-school political dirty tricks instead. One of the firm’s services, Nix said, is facilitating a sting where a politician is approached by someone posing as a wealthy developer and offering a large amount of money in exchange for a kickback. Or the firm could “send some girls around to the candidate’s house,” he said. “Deep digging is interesting, but equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that’s too good to be true and make sure that’s video-recorded -- these sorts of tactics are very effective, instantly having video evidence of corruption and putting it on the internet,” Nix said. “I’m just giving you examples of what can be done, what has been done.” Cambridge Analytica can also help sway elections by spreading disinformation about candidates. “It doesn’t have to be true,” Nix said in one of the recordings aired this week. “It just has to be believed.” The executive also said his company used a self-destructing email server to communicate with clients in order to eliminate evidence of their contact. In the Channel 4 report aired Tuesday, Nix claimed credit for the work done on Trump’s campaign, saying: “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy.” In an interview with the BBC on Monday, Nix denied claims that Cambridge Analytica engaged in improper tactics to sway elections, calling the allegations a coordinated attack by the media. The firm said it doesn’t engage in the actions that Nix described and that Alexander Tayler will serve as acting CEO while the probe is under way. The board said a full investigation into the comments and allegations will be led by U.K. lawyer Julian Malins. “Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” Cambridge Analytica’s board said in a statement. Nix, known as Bertie, graduated from the elite boarding school Eton College. He set up Cambridge Analytica in 2013 to target the U.S. market, installing himself as CEO after 14 years as a director of SCL. In the past couple of years, Nix, 42, has become a darling in tech and marketing circles, popping up on the international speaking circuit to promote his data-driven approach. 


[w577]             Wall St advances on energy bump; Facebook woes continues     U.S. stocks advanced modestly on Tuesday as higher oil prices lifted the energy sector, but another slump in Facebook Inc shares curbed gains. Oil prices rose more than 2 percent to touch a three-week high, driven by tensions in the Middle East and the possibility of further declines in Venezuelan crude output. Those gains helped the S&P; energy index rise 0.84 percent, making it easily the best performing of the 11 major S&P; 500 sectors. Facebook Inc shares ended down 2.6 percent, well above earlier lows. The social media company said on Tuesday it faced questions from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission about how its users' personal data was mined by a political consultancy hired by President Donald Trump's campaign. The stock has fallen about 9 percent over the past two sessions, its biggest two-day decline since February 2016, a drop that has weighed heavily on equities. U.S. and European lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how the consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, gained access to the data and why Facebook failed to inform its users, raising broader industry questions about consumer privacy and whether tougher regulation is on the horizon. "The negative part would be they are going to haul them in front of Congress now and we’ll see do they create new laws, are there new regulations that could stunt the growth of the company? That is really what the fear is," said Joe Saluzzi, co-manager of trading at Themis Trading in Chatham, New Jersey. Facebook was not the only social media stock or fund taking a hit on Tuesday. Shares of Snap Inc fell 2.56 percent, while Twitter Inc shares tumbled 10.38 percent. The Global X Social Media ETF lost 0.9 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 116.36 points, or 0.47 percent, to 24,727.27, the S&P; 500 gained 4.02 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,716.94 and the Nasdaq Composite added 20.06 points, or 0.27 percent, to 7,364.30. Oracle dropped 9.4 percent after the business software maker reported lower-than-expected quarterly revenue. Financial stocks edged up 0.21 percent as investors awaited a near-certain interest rate hike at the end of the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on Wednesday. Market participants largely expect a total of three rate hikes this year, although some have not ruled out the possibility the U.S. central bank will hike four times. "We are finally normalizing, after years we talked about the Fed holding it down and the market only going up because of the Fed. Now let’s see what the market can do – can it stand on its own two legs?" said Saluzzi, referring to the low interest rate environment the Fed put into effect after the financial crisis. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 6.26 billion shares, compared with the 7.17 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days. Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 1.28-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.26-to-1 ratio favored decliners. 


[w578]          Facebook Sued by Investors Over Voter-Profile Harvesting     Facebook Inc.’s failure to safeguard the privacy of users is being blamed in an investor lawsuit for a slump in its share price that followed the revelation users’ data were harvested without permission by a research firm connected to U.S. President Donald Trump. The world’s largest social media network was sued in California court on Tuesday by shareholders who said they suffered losses after it was disclosed Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based firm that aided Trump, improperly obtained profile information on 50 million users. 

[w579] PMO Office Issues Statement About Cambridge Analytica, Says Data Firm Reported Directly To Mukhriz Mahathir 

[w580]    World Probe on data practices intensifies Mark Zuckerberg called on to testify over Facebook data leak; Britain seeks warrant to raid Cambridge Analytica offices   British privacy regulators are seeking a warrant to search the offices of the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica following reports that the company may have improperly gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users, according to a Channel 4 television report. The move came as US and European lawmakers demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm, which worked on US President Donald Trump's election campaign, gained access to the data. In the US, members of Congress called on Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg to testify about Facebook's actions. Facebook said it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data, Reuters reported. "Auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytica's London office this evening," the company said in a statement late on Monday.  "At the request of the UK Information Commissioner's Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down."  Views Could Star Wars tech become reality? Jun 01, 2018 "The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook data practices, and the picture is not pretty," said Mr Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who has written about Silicon Valley's use of data. A British parliamentary committee yesterday asked Mr Zuckerberg to appear before it, AFP reported. 'CATASTROPHIC FAILURE' Mr Damian Collins, chairman of the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, wrote to Mr Zuckerberg asking for his account of "this catastrophic failure of process". The lid is being opened on the black box of Facebook data practices, and the picture is not pretty University of Maryland law professor Frank Pasquale Mr Collins wrote: "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process. "Given your commitment at the start of the New Year to 'fixing' Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you." Mr Collins set Mr Zuckerberg a deadline of March 26 to reply. Also on Monday, a source said that Facebook head of security Alex Stamos plans to leave the company over disagreements about the company's policies on misinformation. In a tweet, Mr Stamos did not deny he was leaving but said: "Despite the rumours, I am still fully engaged with my work at Facebook. It is true that my role did change." London-based Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denied the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party application in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. Republican Senator John Kennedy called on Mr Zuckerberg to testify before Congress, and Democratic Senator Ron Widen sent a letter to Mr Zuckerberg asking about company policies for sharing user data with third parties. A spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the allegations were "clearly very concerning". Meanwhile, Channel 4 aired a video on Monday apparently showing Mr Alexander Nix, the head of Cambridge Analytica, talking about using bribes, traps involving sex workers and other unethical tactics to swing elections around the world. In the video, he appears to suggest the company could "send some girls around to the candidate's house", Washington Post reported. He later added that he favoured Ukrainian women in particular: "They are very beautiful. I find that works very well." The surreptitiously recorded video also appears to depict conversations involving Mr Nix, Mr Mark Turnbull, the managing director of Cambridge Analytica Political Global, and Mr Alex Tayler, the chief data officer. The executives repeatedly appear to brag about their behind-the-scenes efforts to influence political outcomes in Malaysia, Mexico, Australia and Kenya, at one point teasing that they are beginning to work in China too. 


[w581] Facebook loses US$60bn in market value following user data scandal 


[w582] US FTC probing Facebook data scandal FTC probing Facebook data scandal:  Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been forced to issue a statement outlining his firm's role in the scandal and apologised to its billions of users for the breach The US Federal Trade Commission, a consumer and competition watchdog, is investigating Facebook after a major data scandal that affected 50 million users, US media reported on Tuesday. A probe by the FTC would add further pressure on the social media giant which faces calls by Britain's Parliament and the European Commission for urgent investigations, while US lawmakers have called on Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to appear before Congress. At the center of the scandal is a British firm, Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. According to a joint investigation by The New York Times and Britain's Observer, Cambridge Analytica was able to create psychological profiles using data from 50 million Facebook users through the use of a personality prediction app that was downloaded by 270,000 people, but also scooped up data from friends. The goal was to be able to predict the behavior of individual US voters. The Wall Street Journal reported that the FTC is probing whether, by the data transfer to Cambridge Analytica, Facebook violated terms of a decree under which it agreed to get user consent for collecting personal data and sharing it with others. In a similar report, The Washington Post said that if the FTC ultimately finds that Facebook broke that agreement, it could fine the company $40,000 for each violation. Facebook shares tumbled another 2.6 percent on Tuesday after a 6.8 percent plunge Monday on news of the scandal. The social media company on Tuesday said it is "committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens."   


[w583]   Facebook’s Zuckerberg Called to Explain Massive Data Breach       Facebook’s Zuckerberg Called to Explain Massive Data Breach     On Sunday, March 18, US and EU officials asked Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg for an explanation concerning a massive data breach. The breach involved the personal data of several millions of Facebook users that ended up with Cambridge Analytica (CA), a company hired by US President Donald Trump during his election campaign, without the users’ knowledge or consent. Questions have also arisen whether Facebook has transgressed a landmark consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission, which had been put in place in 2011 in order to avoid the violation of privacy. David Vladeck, who had been an officer with the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection and who had helped negotiate the FTC-Facebook agreement at that time, said that this law carries fines as high as US$40,000 (S$52,700) for every violation, which means that Facebook could end up paying in the billions. The social media app platform denies any violations of their agreement with the FTC, however, it has received renewed attention both politically and from regulatory bodies. This season has been tough for Facebook, which has fought to preserve its image especially after news of Russian agents using the platform to manipulate users during the 2016 presidential elections in the US. Cambridge Analytica made use of another application in order to gain access to data concerning almost 300,000 Facebook users between 2014 and 2015. The Trump campaign had paid the company more than US $6 million for their services during the campaign. However, it’s highly likely that tens of millions of people were affected in the data breach, since the information gathered during this period would have given access even to the data of friends of users, such as their birthdays, education, work histories, locations, pictures, political and religious affiliations, relationship statuses, and more—information that could very much be used by other political campaigns.  This is the first time that Mr. Zuckerberg will directly be questioned on these matters, even if Cambridge Analytics and Facebook have been under investigation in London and Washington for several months now. According to Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar, Mr. Zuckerberg should appear in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee concerning the extent of Facebook’s knowledge of the data of millions of Americans that was used “in order to target political advertising and manipulate voters.” Other US legislators, the Justice Commissioner of the EU, and Damian Collins, a British lawmaker in charge of a committee in parliament tasked to investigate Cambridge Analytics and Facebook, are also calling for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify. On Sunday Mr. Collins said, “I will be writing to Mark Zuckerberg asking that either he or another senior executive from the company appear to give evidence in front of the committee as part our inquiry.” Additionally, the attorneys-general form Pennsylvania and Massachusetts are also intending to launch an investigation. The social media platform has yet to comment on whether or not Mr. Zuckerberg will testify, however, they made a statement on Sunday saying that its own investigations have been renewed. The hiring of Joseph Chancellor, who once worked for Cambridge Analytics and is now with Facebook, is also being investigated, although it is not known whether Facebook knew about his connection with Cambridge Analytics when he was hired. 

[w584] Why the Cambridge Analytica scandal matters  Why the Cambridge Analytica scandal matters  Facebook’s shares have taken a nosedive after something to do with data used by Cambridge Analytica. Confused? Here’s what it means, and what could come next.  Cambridge Analytica is a London-based consulting firm. It is under pressure  over allegations it uses illegally obtained data  and social media manipulation to influence elections. Those claims come from Christopher Wylie, 28, who told  The Guardian he helped found the company and that he came up with the technique  which combined psychological profiling and information warfare. In a nutshell, there are three main points to Wylie’s story: People were targeted with political ads  individually tailored to their personality to manipulate them  to get them to vote for Donald Trump in the 2016 election The data was obtained via a personality test on Facebook and  pulled in information about what their friends liked  without their explicit permission The same technique has potentially been  applied to elections across the world , with the company selling its services to the highest bidder Wylie said the data was collected very quickly. About 320,000 people used the personality quiz app on Facebook “thisismydigitallife” created by Global Science Research (GSR), run by Cambridge-based academic Aleksandr Kogan. The data of about 50 million users was harvested in about two months by accessing those users’ friends networks, Wylie said. He also said the name Cambridge Analytica had nothing to do with the Cambridge University in the UK, other than it had an office in the town and intentionally used the name to seem more authoritative. The claims have led to investigations  in the UK, the US  and the EU. UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said she would apply for a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica offices, and the head of the UK’s inquiry into fake news has requested Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg give answers about Facebook having previously misled it. Wylie has submitted evidence to the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office and its National Crime Agency’s cybercrime unit,  The Guardian  reported. Donald Trump during the US Presidential election campaign (Photo by Kena Betancur/Getty Images) One of Trump’s campaign backers, secretive US hedge-fund billionaire and Republican donor Robert Mercer, was Cambridge Analytica’s main investor after former Trump campaign head Steve Bannon brought the firm – including Wylie – to pitch to him. For its part, Cambridge Analytica has denied any wrongdoing. The firm insisted it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data. Why it matters The question now is whether what Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have each done is actually illegal, and what parts of it may just be considered immoral. Initially objectionable is the way the GSR data – which Wylie says has essentially formed the basis for Cambridge Analytica’s work – was obtained. Further concerns surround the effect on democratic elections. Certainly, there has been spin in political elections forever, but putting the ability to sway public opinion into the hands of those who can pay would seem to undermine the very basis of democracy. Wylie told  The Guardian  the company was willing to subvert elections on behalf of foreign governments. He also claimed a Russian oil company was fully briefed by the company about how it uses personality data to affect elections. Facebook’s role Facebook shares have plummeted since the story broke, dropping 6.7% of its value on Monday, wiping almost $37bn from its market value. Wylie told  The Guardian  no one at Cambridge Analytica had checked if taking the data was legal. The GSR app that was taking the data apparently had permission to do so for “academic purposes only”. Wylie claims to have a contract between GSR and Cambridge Analytica’s parent company specifically for harvesting and processing Facebook data. A report in 2015  claimed the firm was using Facebook data to support US Republican Ted Cruz. Wylie said the only effort Facebook made to retrieve the data after the 2015 report was to send him a letter – months later in August 2016, some two years after the breach took place and after he had left Cambridge Analytica – saying the data had been illicitly obtained and GSR “was not authorised to share or sell it”. Wylie said the letter asked the data to be deleted immediately, tick a box saying it had been done, and send the letter back to Facebook. Cambridge Analytica was suspended from Facebook on Saturday, making it harder for the company to carry out its role. In  a statement , it said it fully complied with Facebook’s terms of service and did not hold data from Facebook profiles. “Global Science Research (GSR), was contractually committed by us to only obtain data in accordance with the UK Data Protection Act and to seek the informed consent of each respondent. GSR was also contractually the Data Controller (as per Section 1(1) of the Data Protection Act) for any collected data. GSR obtained Facebook data via an API provided by Facebook,” it said. “When it subsequently became clear that the data had not been obtained by GSR in line with Facebook’s terms of service, Cambridge Analytica deleted all data received from GSR.” Wylie said there were multiple copies of the data, however, and it had been emailed in unencrypted files. What Cambridge Analytica says Cambridge Analytica has now  suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix  over comments secretly recorded by the UK’s Channel 4, “pending a full, independent investigation”. “We did all the research [for the Trump campaign]. “We did all the data. We did all the analytics. We did all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign and our data informed their strategy,” Nix told an undercover reporter during a meeting in a London hotel. Nix also said he had met the then Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump “many times” and that his firm played a central role in the final months of the campaign. Before his suspension, Cambridge Analytica  claimed  Facebook data from GSR had all been deleted, and was not used for Donald Trump’s campaign. It also  put out a statement  saying the interview was mischaracterised and obtained through entrapment. “Assessing the legality and reputational risks associated with new projects is critical for us, and we routinely undertake conversations with prospective clients to try to tease out any unethical or illegal intentions. The two Cambridge Analytica executives at the meeting humoured these questions and actively encouraged the prospective client to disclose his intentions. They left with grave concerns and did not meet with him again,” the statement said. How to protect your data on Facebook There are a few things to be aware of if you want to restrict who has access to your data. Keep an eye on apps, especially those which require you to log in using your Facebook account – they often have a very wide range of permissions and many are specifically designed to pick up your data Use an ad blocker to limit advertising Look at your Facebook security settings and make sure you are aware of what is enabled. Check the individual app settings to see whether you have given them permission to view your friends as well as yourself You can download a copy of the data Facebook holds on you, although it is not comprehensive. There is a download button at the bottom of the General Account Settings tab. However, bear in mind that your data may be less secure sitting on your laptop than it is on Facebook’s servers if your device is hacked You can of course, simply leave Facebook, but the campaign group Privacy International warns that privacy concerns extend beyond the social network 


[w585]   US watchdog investigates Cambridge Analytica, Facebook 


[w586]      Juha Saarinen: Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess   Advertisement Advertise with NZME.  Facebook is still being used to watch, track and segment us - and we're complicit    Nearly a third of the world uses the social media site Facebook, but how are New Zealanders using it?           A New Zealand advertising boss says the strategies employed by data firm Cambridge Analytica are nothing new to the marketing industry - and neither is the impassioned response to the control they are purported to have over the public. "They're selling baked beans like they're selling politicians," said Paul Catmur, the chief executive of Barnes, Catmur & Friends Dentsu. "What Cambridge Analytica did for the Trump campaign seems currently no different to what they or a number of similar firms do for commercial clients. Nobody currently seems too upset about the use of psychographic methods to sell toothpaste, but they are up in arms to see it used to manipulate support for a right-wing president." Catmur also questioned the supposed impact of the data firm's role in the election, suggesting it may have been little more than a hyperbolic marketing ploy. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. "While they claim to have helped Trump's victory, this may well have been exaggerated to help sell themselves to their commercial clients," said Catmur. "The Trump campaign disputes the effectiveness of [their] work. And they also worked for Ted Cruz and that didn't seem to help him much." Catmur said the current outrage regarding the impact of marketing practices on the choices the public makes is also nothing new. "It's a natural progression of the sophistication of marketing and the current hysteria is similar to that around the launch of Vance Packard's book The Hidden Persuaders in 1957. "In his book, Packard claimed that consumers were being influenced against their will by companies using sophisticated research techniques. Sound familiar?" Catmur added that the data techniques employed by Cambridge Analytica are neither novel nor sophisticated in light of the rapid development in the space. Related articles: Two words Facebook boss lives to regret 20 Mar, 2018 8:25pm  Bombshell video sting on data firm 20 Mar, 2018 10:02am  Facebook stocks plunge as pressure mounts on Zuckerberg 20 Mar, 2018 7:00am "The notable difference is that toothpaste marketers are not currently suspected of working with the Russians to sway the sales of dental floss." The reason Cambridge Analytica has hit the headlines is largely due to the affront its actions pose to democracy. But this isn't an issue limited to one firm or one social media platform, according to Simon Bird, the strategy director at media agency PHD. "Filter bubbles, which exist pretty much everywhere in the digital world, are creating divided societies because people end up only consuming content that affirms their current worldview," Bird told the Herald . "Serving people more content that they're more likely to respond to is obviously good business for digital companies but clearly it's not without a social cost." What's perhaps most concerning - and insidious - about the Cambridge Analytica story is that Facebook users handed over their data willingly. Everyone who answered a series of seemingly innocuous questions via the research app agreed to share their data. No systems were surreptitiously infiltrated and no one stole passwords or sensitive information without permission. To Facebook, the only real violation was the transfer of information collected for "research" to a third party such as Cambridge. What this really comes down to is our willingness to opt-in, that is to hand over our information without so much as a second thought.         Facebook allows you to look at which apps have permission to access your personal information - and quick look at your personal list will likely reveal that a few less-than-reputable companies have access to your information. • Go here to find out how much information you're sharing with apps on Facebook. This really poses the question of whether you really trust the makers of Farmsville enough not to give your details to next iteration of Cambridge Analytica. While it might be true that users are consenting to their information being handed over, this consent is about as concrete as that given when consumers click confirm under a complex user agreement. "People are cognitively lazy so burying consent in a long approval form is legally defendable but most people don't know what they're consenting to or how their data is being used so it's a little morally questionable," says Bird. "Businesses and ergo marketers will always push the boundaries as much as they're legally allowed to. I think the laws will get much tighter." Bird's prediction seems likely in light of recent legal shifts in Australia, making it mandatory for companies to disclose a data breach as soon as they occur. There are now also local calls from security experts for similar rules to be applied in this market. Barry Brailey, a cybersecurity specialist at Aura Information Security, would welcome the introduction of similar laws in this market. "When someone else holds something of yours that is valuable, they have a duty to look after it," says Brailey. "They also have a duty to let you know if something happens to it – and that's really what notification laws codify." And as more data is handed over across digital channels, the onus of this responsibility will only become greater.  

[w587]      Zuckerberg summoned by UK Parliament as data firm faces searches  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has lost billions in the past days.            British MPs have requested Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg give evidence as part of an ongoing inquiry into how the world's largest social-media platform handles fake news. The formal request arrives as privacy watchdogs across Europe plot their next steps in the wake of a scandal over the British firm accused of harvesting Facebook user profiles in its work for Donald Trump's presidential campaign. British Conservative MP Damian Collins, head of a committee investigating the impact of social media on recent elections, wrote to Zuckerberg today to request he answer for a "catastrophic failure of process" regarding the handling of user data. Separately, the EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova said she also plans to meet with Facebook during a visit in the US this week and seek answers to claims that Cambridge Analytica kept information on tens of millions of the social network giant's users. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. "From a European Union perspective, the misuse for political purposes of personal data belonging to Facebook users - if confirmed - is not acceptable," the EU said in a statement. UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said she's in the process of obtaining a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica, the firm at the centre of the scandal. Channel 4 News and the Guardian released further damaging reports on Cambridge Analytica. A panel of data privacy authorities from the 28-nation EU are expected to discuss the issue at a meeting in Brussels Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica failed to respond to an access request by the UK Information Commissioner's Office, forcing the authority to seek a warrant "to obtain information and access to systems and evidence," it said in a statement. At issue is information on millions of Facebook users that Cambridge Analytica obtained from a researcher who shared the data without Facebook's permission.  Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess   How Facebook apps get permission to stalk you  Two words Facebook boss lives to regret  Firm had reach beyond US elections  According to published news reports, Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan created a personality-analysis app that was used by 270,000 Facebook users, who in turn gave the app permission to access data on themselves and their friends, ultimately exposing a network of 50 million. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it's been in touch with ICO since last year about various aspects of its activities. The firm said it remains "committed to helping the ICO and all other concerned organisations in their investigations and audits." Wow. Now there's a Facebook whistleblower. Data harvested not from tens of millions or users, but hundreds of millions.... https://t.co/TcgSvCDkxO — Carole Cadwalladr (@carolecadwalla) March 20, 2018 Concerning Facebook data, the firm said it "offered to share with the ICO all the information that it asked for and for the ICO to attend our office voluntarily, subject to our agreeing the scope of the inspection." In an earlier statement Cambridge Analytica said it "strongly" denied "false allegations" in the media and said that the Facebook data at the centre of the scandal wasn't used as part of services provided to the Trump campaign. Facebook has enlisted the firm Stroz Friedberg to assess advertising-data provider Cambridge Analytica, whose handling of Facebook user data has mired the social networking company in controversy. EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they “ran all the digital campaign” for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities. https://t.co/YzCJIPZser #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 "On March 19, Facebook announced that it will stand down its search of Cambridge Analytica premises at the Information Commissioner's request," the ICO said in the statement. "Such a search would potentially compromise a regulatory investigation." Facebook said in a blog post on the issue that it was "moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information." Speaking to BBC Radio 4, Denham said that the ICO was "concerned about the integrity of our investigation. We are also looking at Facebook at the same time. Our advice to Facebook was 'back away.'" She told Channel 4 News earlier that the agency was seeking a warrant. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica had agreed to be audited by Stroz Friedberg to determine whether the data company still has the disputed information. NEWS: Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO Alexander Nix, the company told employees today. Story soon on WSJ. — Rebecca Ballhaus (@rebeccaballhaus) March 20, 2018 Reporter: “So the candidate is the puppet?" Cambridge Analytica: “Always.” EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump's campaign consultants secretly filmed discussing US politics. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/Q8dfb1kCaN — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 EXCLUSIVE: Cambridge Analytica bosses say they “ran all the digital campaign” for Donald Trump - including potentially illegal activities.   Hands off my data! 15 default privacy settings you should change right now 


[w588]  Cambridge Analytica’s Global Election Bombshell: Balance of Power The revelations of the apparent skulduggery that helped Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election keep sending shock waves across the political landscape. On top of allegations of Russian meddling in the election come disclosures by the New York Times and the Guardian’s Observer that Cambridge Analytica , a political-advertising firm hired by Trump’s campaign, accessed and retained information on 50 million Facebook Inc. users without their permission and used it to psychoanalyze and target potential voters. Then yesterday, U.K. broadcaster Channel 4 showed footage of Cambridge Analytica executives including CEO Alexander Nix talking about how the firm could use prostitutes and former spies to ensnare politicians and influence elections. They bragged about swaying votes in other countries such as Kenya. The U.K. Electoral Commission is also investigating what role the company may have played in the Brexit referendum. Facebook’s attempts so far to tamp down the firestorm have backfired. Government officials in the U.S. and Europe are demanding answers from CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos is reportedly leaving and the company's shares have dropped. The impact on Trump remains unclear. The Republican leading the House inquiry into Russian meddling said the disclosures, while concerning, wouldn’t stop him from shutting down the probe next week. Yet Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s separate Russia investigation continues.       


[w589]  Deepdive: How facebook helped weaponise your data 


[w590]  Facebook data leak: WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton tweets 'It is time. Delete Facebook'  


[w591] How Zuckerberg saved tens of millions of dollars on Facebook's worst day  How Zuckerberg saved tens of millions of dollars on Facebook's worst day The social media firm is facing an outrage over the alleged privacy breach   Even as the Facebook is facing an unprecedented outrage and demand for investigation over an alleged breach of privacy, its chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has not broken his silence over the issue. The company's shares witnessed a drastic fall of 6.7 per cent on Monday after the data controversy hit headlines. Zuckerburg, who owns 16 per cent of the company shares, personally saw his fortune fall by 5 billion dollar on a single day. However, media reports reveal that Zuckerberg's personal loss could have been even worse. The Facebook CEO had managed to sell off nearly 5 million shares worth tens of millions of dollars before the worst day of the social media firm began, according to a report by the Market Watch . Related stories YouTube, Snapchat more popular than Facebook among US teens Copy our data privacy policies too, Snap CEO to Facebook Papua New Guinea to ban Facebook for month to curb fake news A #DeleteFacebook campaign is gathering steam after reports suggested that a political consultancy firm, Cambridge Analytica, might have improperly gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users. US and European lawmakers have demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm, which worked on US President Donald Trump's election campaign, gained access to the data. According to a report in The Observer earlier this week, a company called Global Science Research (GSR) harvested tens of millions of Facebook profiles and sold the data to Cambridge Analytica. It is not clear whether the consulting firm still possesses the harvested data.  Facebook said on Monday it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data. “If this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook’s policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made,” Facebook said in a statement. London-based Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denied the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party application in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. However, further allegations about the firm’s tactics were reported late Monday by British broadcaster Channel 4 which said it secretly taped interviews with senior Cambridge Analytica executives in which they boasted of their ability to sway elections in countries around the world with digital manipulation and traditional political trickery. Facebook and other social media companies including Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc’s YouTube have taken voluntary steps to restrict possible foreign interference and combat false news, but they have not been forced by law or regulation to make changes and legislation on the issue has stalled. 

[w592]  Cambridge Analytica's parent firm helped shape Saudi reform drive													 														

[w593] 

[w594]  Facebook’s Long History Of Resolving Privacy Claims On The Cheap  Facebook Inc.’s deepening crisis over how the British political-advertising firm Cambridge Analytica misused the social network’s customer user data took another turn Tuesday with the news that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission is investigating. That’s on top of probes by multiple state attorneys general and the U.K. data-protection watchdog. It’s not the first time Facebook has been targeted for its privacy policies. In fact, the FTC probe is looking at whether the incident shows the company violated an 2011 settlement with the agency over its data protections -- any violation of the so-called consent decree could cost Facebook millions of dollars. But that’s a tiny fraction of the company’s nearly $493 billion market value, and a review of some of the major penalties and settlements it’s paid in recent years shows more often than not, these cases don’t end in painfully large payouts: March 29, 2018: Facebook users will ask a San Francisco judge next week to let their claims that the company’s photo-scanning technology gathered and stored biometric data without their consent proceed as a class action. While Facebook potentially faces liability in the billions of dollars under a unique Illinois law, certification isn’t guaranteed and the company has a history of defeating privacy lawsuits entirely or settling them for a fraction of what’s sought. March 2018: Spain’s data protection watchdog fines Facebook and WhatsApp 300,000 euros ($367,650) each for processing user data without people’s consent. September 2017: The same watchdog fines Facebook 1.2 million euros for failing to obtain proper consent to collect and store sensitive personal data, including information on gender, religion and internet use. August 2017: Facebook wins U.S. court approval of a non-monetary settlement of allegations that it systemically scanned users’ private messages. The accord requires the company to not collect demographic and other personal information associated with links shared in Facebook messages. May 2017: France’s privacy regulator fines Facebook 150,000 euros for misusing user data for targeted advertising and illegally tracking what users do on and off the site via cookies. May 2017: The European Union’s antitrust regulator fines Facebook 110 million euros after it changed its privacy policy, in contradiction to the pledge it made to segregate WhatsApp data from other Facebook platforms to win approval for its 2014 takeover of the messaging service. February 2016: A German court fines Facebook 100,000 euros for failing to comply with a 2012 order related to its policies on data usage. December 2012: Facebook’s $20 million settlement of a U.S. class action over claims it used subscribers’ names without their permission to advertise products in its “Sponsored Stories” is approved. November 2011: Facebook agrees to resolve complaints by the U.S. FTC that it failed to protect users’ privacy or disclose how their data could be used. The accord didn’t include a fine, but it required Facebook to get users’ consent for certain changes to privacy settings, among other measures. March 2010: Facebook wins approval of another U.S. class-action settlement, this time for $9.5 million to resolve claims regarding its Beacon feature, which tracked what users buy online and shared the information with their friends.   

[w595]  Facebook Has Endured Potholes, But Data Crisis May Be A Crater  Facebook Inc. is on a merry-go-round of crises, and it can't get off. The question now is whether the latest episode in Facebook's post-2016 period of reckoning will permanently mar its reputation, impair its business prospects and result in onerous regulatory handcuffs.   Investors appear to have decided the answer is yes. In a day-and-a-half of stock market trading, Facebook has lost about $50 billion in market value after  revelations about misuses of Facebook user data and the company's typically inept response . Facebook's 6.8 percent share decline on Monday was the worst percentage swoon for the company since 2014, according to Bloomberg data, and shares are on track for another dip on Tuesday.   This may be the first time that investors have displayed real fear since Facebook became a fixture of controversy starting with its role in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the Brexit vote. The market declines could reverse, of course, but it feels as if the investment hive mind has decided Facebook can't escape unscathed.  The odd thing about this latest twist in Facebook's drama is that it's not truly new but more an example of past practices coming back to haunt it. The hoovering of Facebook user data by offshoots of the mysterious Cambridge Analytica was a result of since-ended permissive policies at Facebook that allowed outsiders who had permission to tap information from some Facebook users to also then gain access to information about their friends and friends of friends. Researchers, news organizations and others sounded the alarms loudly about the dangers of this earlier Wild West era of Facebook data collection. But that was years ago, when attitudes about Facebook and technology companies in general were different. Politicians, regulators, journalists and competitors are now watching everything Facebook does and are more willing to assume the worst about its actions and motives. This is a good thing. Maybe the pendulum has swung too far and everyone is over-hyping every Facebook misstep or rewriting history through a more sinister lens. It's still better than the alternative of ignoring the company's track record of putting its business interests ahead of the welfare of its users and the world.  The question now is how long does the current period of Facebook mistrust last. And will the company be damaged forever either from lost of trust, flight of advertisers or new types of regulatory burdens. I still don't know. I think back to the white-hot scrutiny on technology companies including Facebook after the revelations leaked by former government contractor Edward Snowden starting in 2013. It was a moment of reckoning about the vast sea of information held by a handful of powerful technology and telecom companies -- so potentially informative that the data were of great interest to U.S. intelligence agencies. And the leaks showed that Americans were more reliant than they ever imagined on a handful of companies that were determining what should or shouldn't be shared with the U.S. government.  I thought the Snowden leaks would be the end of the era of social media and the broader practices of companies whose mission was turning personal information into corporate riches. It was not. There was no sweeping regulatory shift -- no Dodd-Frank rule for technology companies. There was no significant erosion of user trust, at least not in the U.S. In the end, not that much changed for Google, Facebook and other companies caught up in what seemed like an inflection point at the time.  What has changed is that Facebook and other tech companies are bigger, powerful and more influential than they were even just in 2013. The stakes are simply higher. There is also more vigilance and awareness of Facebook's role in sowing misinformation and hatred in many parts of the globe. There's more public understanding, albeit vague, that Facebook knows so much about its users and isn't always a responsible steward of that information. So this time might be different for Facebook. But we've been here before, too, with few true repercussions. 


[w596]  Facebook ‘outraged’ by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica  				"The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said. 		 Facebook said on Wednesday the company was “outraged” after being “deceived” over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher.  Facebook stocks drop amid alleged data leak crisis “The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” the statement said. It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams “are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.” .


[w597] Alexander Nix suspended: Cambridge Analytics suspends its chief executive in data breach row   Cambridge Analytica suspends chief executive Alexander Nix in data breach row British lawmakers have summoned Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in connection with the allegations of data breach by Cambridge Analytica.  Cambridge Analytica, the British firm accused of using the private data of more than five crore Facebook users during United States President Donald Trump’s election campaign, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday. The move comes after more undercover recordings by Britain’s Channel4News emerged on Tuesday evening showing Nix talk about his company’s vast role in the Trump campaign. Nix also spoke of the use of a secret self-destructing email system, AFP reported. “There’s no evidence, there’s no paper trail, there’s nothing,” he said about the system, which can delete emails two hours after they have been read. Nix said the company’s research and analytics helped Trump win with a narrow margin of “40,000 votes” in three states, BBC reported. Cambridge Analytica’s board of directors said it has suspended Nix with “immediate effect, pending a full, independent investigation”, but added that his comments to the channel does not “represent the values or operations of the firm”. The firm has denied any wrongdoing. The Board has suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation. https://t.co/HV9Mb5eXIR — Cambridge Analytica (@CamAnalytica) March 20, 2018 Facebook chief summoned Meanwhile, a UK parliamentary committee has summoned Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg in connection with the alleged data breach by Cambridge Analytica, PTI reported. The summons to 33-year-old Zuckerberg was sent by Damian Collins, the chair of the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee. “It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process,” the letter to Zuckerberg read. “Given your commitment at the start of the new year to ‘fixing’ Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you.” The summons to the Facebook chief came after whistleblower Christopher Wylie – who worked with Cambridge Analytica – claimed that the firm collected data through a personality quiz on the social networking site, BBC reported. He said that while 2,70,000 people took the quiz, the data of several million users in the US was accessed without their consent. Cambridge Analytica then used this data to profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them, Wylie alleged. Other allegations Apart from using private data of million, Cambridge Analytica is also accused of using shell companies, sex workers, fake news and bribes to sway election outcomes in several countries, according to a report by the Channel4News . These claims were purportedly made by top executives to the channel’s undercover reporters. The channel also claims to have evidence of the firm’s officials boasting about having worked in election campaigns across the world, including India. The company’s executives purportedly told undercover reporters that they used methods including entrapping rival election candidates in fake bribery stings and hiring sex workers to seduce them. “It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that do not necessarily need to be true as long as they are believed,” Nix is heard saying in the clips. Nix reportedly said the company found material on political opponents by sending “some girls around to the candidate’s house”, and Ukrainian girls “are very beautiful, I find that works very well”.     


[w598]  Facebook 'outraged' by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica   Facebook 'outraged' by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica    San Francisco, Mar 21 Facebook said today the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher. "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said. It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams "are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.  Facebook said today the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher. "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said. It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams "are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue. 


[w599]  Cambridge Analytica, UK Firm in Facebook Row, Suspends CEO as Lawmakers Demand Answers  Cambridge Analytica, UK Firm in Facebook Row, Suspends CEO as Lawmakers Demand Answers 


[w601] 

[w602]   Your vote - caught in the web   As fears grow overseas over the way practitioners of political dark arts are embracing advanced digital technology, Insight looks at how social media, Facebook in particular, will play a greater role in political messaging in this year's election campaign. Voting and digital influence Photo: ( Supplied ) HTML5 Audio Flash version Flash version ends Scoop Media Cartel DFP Tag Click a link to play audio (or right-click to download) in either MP3 format . Listen to the full Insight documentary here Even a casual observer will probably have noticed the adverts that appear in your social media feeds and internet browsers have become increasingly personal over the last couple of years or so. For example, after discussing the illness of a close relative with other family members online you might be served an advert for the services of a funeral director. While this so-called "microtargetting" of advertising could be a welcome convenience for some, there is a disturbing element of intrusion. Extreme examples include the voter suppression and attack ads seen in Britain's Brexit referendum, its recent snap election, and in the US presidential election that against most expectations installed Donald Trump in the White House. A common factor in all three of those campaigns was the winners' use of a data analytics consultancy called Cambridge Analytica. The company boasts of its ability to harvest voter information on a large scale, much of it from social media platforms including Facebook, and to process it to construct psychological profiles. Those profiles reveal voters' emotional triggers, which are in turn exploited in adverts served back to them, often through their social media news feeds. While Cambridge Analytica has made recent overtures to Australian politicians, it doesn't appear to be working with any New Zealand political parties at present. Like it or not, this technology is going to influence which adverts and social media posts from political parties the punters will see during this year's election campaign in New Zealand. New Zealand political parties will be using a combination of their own data sources and analytics, and those offered by the likes of Facebook and Google, to better target ads and posts in the next two months. National Party campaign manager Steven Joyce told Insight Facebook and other online channels had become more and more important over each of the five elections he worked on. "I think we're now at the point where a lot of things that happen in social media can have a bigger impact on the way people perceive political parties than some of the traditional media." In terms of targeting National's Facebook advertising, Mr Joyce said his campaign would rely on the audience segmentation services the social media company itself offers. Vaughn Davis runs Auckland advertising and social media company the Goat Farm, and said everything people did on Facebook was captured stored and measured. "This is Facebook's resource, this is what they own". "All they sell is us and they do a really good job of selling us by having rich information about our behaviours online. So if I want a very specific voter, swing voter or non voter even, I can enter my requirements into my Facebook advertising targeting tools and my ad will be served to those people." Labour Party head of digital Andrew Burns explained to Insight his party's campaign would be targeting potential Labour voters among Facebook's 2.9 million New Zealand users. "We're able to put in the types of people we're targeting, the people we think are likely to swing to Labour, or the people we need to get at, directly into Facebook. "Facebook hashes that data so they don't know who those people are and they identify a whole lot of Facebook profiles that they think are similar to those people, and from there we can segment that data." But Facebook's growing influence as a political messaging platform has been fuelling concerns overseas. In the United Kingdom this year those concerns led Sam Jeffers to set up Who Targets Me to monitor when social media data was used during the recent snap election. About 12,000 people signed up and downloaded Who Targets Me's application which allowed them to collect information about how individuals were targeted with Facebook ads and posts. He said his group's central concern was around the micro targeted or "dark" ads, often ephemeral and only seen by a selected group of users. He said that meant any misleading or untruthful claims they might contain were less likely to be discussed widely and challenged. "There's no reason that this stuff should be dark or opaque to people. There's no reason we should have election campaigns held in secret using targeted data, ads that other people can't see. "The thing that dawned on us over time was that it would be as straightforward for Facebook to just publish ads that are political, or have the Electoral Commission force Facebook to do that, and we would actually be able to see what's going on here." Online political advertising, particularly those shown only to a select group and which are difficult to capture for later scrutiny, could also throw up legal issues. Otago University electoral law expert Andrew Geddis said New Zealand's electoral laws had been written in a media neutral way. Any paid political messaging - whether in print, broadcast or online - were subject broadly to same rules. "One of the questions we might see - as things do move online, and as anonymous speech becomes a little easier, and as information can be distributed much quicker and much more easily - is whether enforcement is going to be as easier and as possible as they were in the old media world. Facebook's public relations representatives told RNZ: "If New Zealanders believe that they encounter political content in New Zealand that contravenes New Zealand law, they should refer this, in the first instance, to the Electoral Commission. We can then work with the Commission to address any concerns." New Zealand's chief electoral officer Alicia Wright said the Electoral Commission was ready for whatever came its way in the online space this election. "The principles that underpin the regime and how we work are around openness, around transparency, being very clear about who is saying what, where the money is coming from, that there is a level playing field and things are fair. "Those principles apply irrespective of the medium that we're in. There may be some unique and different things that come up and we'll work those through, post the election.'' But Professor Val Hooper - a lecturer in marketing, research methodology, consumer and buyer behaviour and information systems management at Victoria University - said regulators like the Electoral Commission would always be playing catch-up when it came to regulating emerging technology. "It always is long process to get that finalised and implemented and by then a whole new host of things have developed that need some sort of guiding policy." That could make the work of grassroots groups like Who Targets Me, all the more important. Jeffers said there was an issue about regulation, "and I think it's one of the things that fuelled interest in our project". "People were just like 'this stuff is very ephemeral, it can just disappear and therefore people can make false claims or spend too much money, or use data in a questionable way and there won't really be a way to track that in the future'. "So I think we were among the first people that was able to get a decent picture of what was going on and we hope that the parties modified their behaviour appropriately, chose to fit more within the law than they might otherwise have done." The Goat Farm's Vaughn Davis also suggested its up to voters themselves to curb the power of Facebook and other online platforms and their clients to sway elections. "The way forward is for us as citizens of the internet, and that's what we all are, to educate ourselves and our families that what we're seeing through that Facebook newsfeed is curated - whether it's by human or computer - and to understand the difference between an ad and an organic story from your friends and sometimes it's hard to tell. "Long term maybe this is something we need to look at as a society and say 'well, if this is our view of the world and it's being controlled by some publicly listed company in California, do we want some control or some transparency round that?'." 

[w603] 

[w605] 

[w606]  Claim UK firm played key role in Trump campaign  Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix. Photo: The Washington Post via Getty Images The suspended head of UK-based political consultancy Cambridge Analytica reportedly claimed in secretly recorded video that his company played a decisive role in the 2016 election campaign of President Donald Trump.  US President Donald Trump.  British broadcaster Channel 4 News mounted a "sting operation" in which it secretly recorded Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix saying he had met the then Republican presidential candidate "many times" and that his firm played a central role in the final months of the campaign. "We did all the research. We did all the data. We did all the analytics. We did all the targetting. We ran all the digital campaign and our data informed their strategy," Nix told an undercover reporter during a meeting in a London hotel. Brad Parscale, the 2016 Trump campaign’s main digital adviser who dealt regularly with Cambridge Analytica, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Parscale was recently named manager of Trump’s 2020 re-election campaign. Nix was suspended by the board of directors of Cambridge Analytica on Tuesday, the company said shortly before the second part of the British news programme's expose on the company. The London-based company's statement said: "In the view of the board, Mr Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation." Nix also was recorded by Channel 4 saying that Cambridge Analytica did not have to reveal to U.S. investigators anything about the company's foreign political campaign clients. If asked, he said he would respond: "We say 'none of your business'." "I am absolutely convinced that they have no jurisdiction," he said. Nix was also dismissive about the testimony he gave to the US House Intelligence Committee late last year. "The Republicans ask three questions in five minutes. Done. The Democrats ask two hours of questions," he said. "They are politicians, they are not technical, they don't understand how it works. They don't understand that the candidate is never involved, he's told what to do by the campaign team." The company named Julian Malins, a well-known British commercial barrister, to lead an independent investigation into Nix's actions.  Pressure on Facebook's Zuckerberg Meanwhile, US Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said on Tuesday that Facebook Inc chief executive Mark Zuckerberg should testify in Congress about his company's treatment of users' data. "Fifty million people lost their privacy," Feinstein told reporters at the US Senate, amid mounting calls in Congress for the social media company to account for the mining of its users' personal data by the political consultancy hired by Trump's campaign. "I think that we ought to have the head of Facebook, not their lawyer, not their number two, but their number one, come... state if they're really prepared to lead the industry to some controls that prevent all this from happening," she said. State attorneys general for Massachusetts and New York sent a letter to Facebook on Tuesday demanding information about personal data that ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica, a person familiar with the matter said. The letter, part of a joint investigation by the two states, requests documents about violations of Facebook's terms of service, as well as copies of all communications between Facebook and Cambridge Analytica and a host of other materials, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 

[w607]      Analysis: Cambridge Analytica's reach went far beyond the US elections  Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, leaves the offices in central London.            American voters have big questions about what role Cambridge Analytica, a London-based data firm, may have played in the 2016 election of US President Donald Trump. The company, which consulted for Trump during the campaign, was rocked by reports from the New York Times and Britain's Observer that it had improperly acquired data from Facebook users - prompting Facebook to ban the firm from its platform and British authorities to demand an explanation. But Cambridge Analytica may be an issue not only for Americans and Britons. The firm claims to have worked in a wide range of countries, including Australia, Brazil, Kenya, Malaysia and Mexico, and politicians in several of them are calling for investigations of the company's work. That list comes directly from the company's representatives, who were recently filmed by an undercover reporter from Britain's Channel 4 News . The journalist presented himself as a potential client, a representative of a wealthy Sri Lankan family eager to increase its political influence. During meetings over four months, Cambridge Analytica employees touted their work worldwide. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Although criticism of Cambridge Analytica focus on its alleged use of data harvested from social media sites, the firm's chief executive, Alexander Nix, appeared to condone using bribes and sexual blackmail to help swing elections. "Please don't pay too much attention to what I'm saying," Nix said over drinks with Channel 4's reporter at a West London hotel. "I'm just giving you examples of what can be done and what has been done." Cambridge Analytica was founded in 2013, but it is affiliated with an older company called SCL Group, an established British firm that has operated since 1993. According to its website, SCL Group has "conducted behavioural change programmes in over 60 countries," describing itself as a service that provides data, analytics and strategy to "governments and military organisations worldwide." SCL Group formed Cambridge Analytica five years ago to participate in American politics; the company is partly owned by Robert Mercer, an American hedge-fund manager and billionaire. But the company's website lists offices in Malaysia and Brazil along with those the United States and Britain, and its activities extend far beyond US borders. Watch the full documentary here #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA https://t.co/YzCJIPZser — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 KENYA Cambridge Analytica's alleged role in last year's chaotic Kenyan elections already has come under scrutiny. Last year, the firm refused to confirm to Kenyan reporters what role it was playing there, and its website refers only to its work in data analysis and surveys during the 2013 election cycle. But in Channel 4's undercover footage, Mark Turnbull, the managing director of Cambridge Analytica Political Global, said the company "ran" Kenyatta's campaigns in 2013 and 2017. Related articles: EU officials put heat on Zuckerberg 21 Mar, 2018 8:16am  Bombshell video sting on data firm 20 Mar, 2018 10:02am "We have re-branded the entire party twice, rewritten their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys," Turnbull said, later adding that the firm had been involved in "just about every element of his campaign." Kenyatta won the August election, the result of which was contested by the opposition and then annulled by Kenya's Supreme Court. Kenyatta then won the October revote after his challenger, Raila Odinga, refused to participate. As in previous years, protests and violence broke out around the elections. At least 92 Kenyans died. The full #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered documentary - secret filming by @Channel4News reveals election tricks https://t.co/EW3uLuhzON — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 19, 2018 Last year's elections were especially noteworthy for the use of social-media-friendly attack ads, a powerful new medium in the country. Privacy International, a London-registered charity, found that an American digital media company called Harris Media LLC had helped created these online campaigns for Kenyatta. Like Cambridge Analytica, Harris Media worked on the Trump campaign in 2016, and the Texas-based firm also has worked for far-right groups such as Alternative for Germany in Europe. Kenyan opposition leaders are now calling for an inquiry into Cambridge Analytica's involvement in Kenyan politics, and other nations are likely to follow suit regarding their own elections. MALAYSIA Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak has denied claims that his government worked with Cambridge Analytica, instead accusing his rival Mahathir Mohamad's son of using its services. AUSTRALIA Australian political parties also have denied using the firm, although a former minister responsible for cybersecurity told SBS that he had met Nix and other Cambridge Analytica representatives at a "private dinner." INDIA In India, there has been renewed scrutiny of SCL Group's 2010 work in an assembly election in the state of Bihar. The Hindustan Times also reported that Cambridge Analytica and its Indian partner have been in talks with both the governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the opposition Indian National Congress ahead of national elections next year. This is what happened when @Channel4News confronted Cambridge Analytica bosses about entrapment earlier today. The company has since suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix over the secret filming revelations, pending full investigation. pic.twitter.com/BkcHEPR88K — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 The full extent of such work is unknown. In footage from Channel 4, Turnbull suggested that Cambridge Analytica had used "a different organiSation to run a very, very successful project in an eastern European country," adding that it had "ghosted in, did the work, ghosted out and produced really, really good material." The country was not named. Nix pushed back against Channel 4's report over the weekend, saying that his talk of bribery and other underhanded tactics captured on video were "ludicrous hypothetical scenarios" designed to get the measure of a potential client. But broader global scrutiny of the company's work is now inevitable - and companies such as Facebook, which helped provide Cambridge Analytica with troves of data about voters worldwide, could face a reckoning, as well.  


[w608]     Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess  Social networks have shot themselves in the foot by losing user trust.           The Cambridge Analytica and Facebook mess that's unfolding this week will change how people think about and use social media, and bring in greater scrutiny of the networks as well. On the surface, it's a good thing because not even the social networks seem to understand what they're doing, connecting millions of people everywhere to one another and to companies that can siphon up their data. Most people who aren't developers have probably never heard of Facebook's Graph Application Programming Interface (API) through which coders get the very detailed information about everyone and their friends. Graph API and other Facebook features are extremely powerful tools. In the wrong hands, they can be abused to sway elections it seems. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Cambridge Analytica created psychological profiles for some 50 million people through an app that just 270,000 people used, purportedly for academic research, but it allegedly ended up as psy-ops tools for swaying elections around the world. Note that Cambridge Analytica broke no laws or even Facebook's terms and conditions for using the API. This is how it was meant to be used, but not what users consented to. Unwinding the mess and wrestling back control over your information will be a very difficult balancing act though. Is it even possible to undo the data collection by app companies? Looking at my own Facebook account, I've given 60 apps permission to access it and therefore, my data. I could revoke permission to the apps, but the data cat's out of the bag and my information is somewhere else. Where it is I don't know, nor do I know what it's being used for. Deleting apps from Facebook only means they don't get any new data. If you want to check or delete what Facebook data they have, you need to contact the app owner which in many cases requires logging in with Facebook. Related articles: How Facebook apps get permission to stalk you 21 Mar, 2018 4:57am  Two words Facebook boss lives to regret 20 Mar, 2018 8:25pm  Bombshell video sting on data firm 20 Mar, 2018 10:02am  Facebook stocks plunge as pressure mounts on Zuckerberg 20 Mar, 2018 7:00am If you remember the name of the app that you deleted, and where it came from that is. You could also turn off the Facebook Platform of services and tools completely, and halt Facebook's integration of your data with millions of websites around the world. That'll break your use of heaps of apps and again, won't delete existing data held by them. Delete your Facebook account? Probably not going to help, as the social network has "shadow profiles" on non-users and infers data on these through their friends who are active on Facebook. It's not clear that it's better if the pendulum swings towards users and social networks become regulated. On the one hand, we don't want surveillance capitalism and information warfare via social networks. However, on the other hand, from a freedom of speech point of view, is it desirable that social networks limit what can be published on them, whether it's good or bad? That data can be captured and easily linked to individuals and specific groups of people, and that can be used for good, and for bad. Getting control over your data feels like an important right to individuals, but the thought of information troves being instantly deletable makes historians, journalists, sociologists and scientists go green around the gills. This is especially the case if politicians and public figures were able to delete material to avoid transparency. Law enforcement and intelligence agencies wouldn't be happy either if criminals and spies could remove their spoors from the net just like that. Instagram provides an easy way for cops to keep track of bikie gang members and what they're up - check out some #hashtags of popular gangs and see for yourself. Whatever happens, social networks have shot themselves in the foot by losing user trust. After scandals such as Cambridge Analytica, people will become more circumspect with what they put online, and how they use social media. This in turn will hit social networks as their data will become less rich and valuable. Which is fair enough. Enormous data repositories such as Facebook and the firms that tap into them show us why we need to dial back the power of social media. The data on users that Cambridge Analytica acquired was collected legitimately under Facebook's rules at the time. This is what I referred to above, and Facebook has acknowledged the very same. Facebook has now accused the researcher who collected the data in 2013, Aleksandr Kogan, of having violated its policies by sharing the information with third parties. Kogan does not believe he violated Facebook's policies however. Despite the policies to prevent information misuse by developers, Facebook's former executive in charge of data policy violations between 2011 and 2012, Sandy Parakilas, said the social network had very few ways to discover abuses however, or to act on ones it found. This is borne out in Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg's post today, in which he says the social network only found out about the alleged violation of its policies by Cambridge Analytica in 2015 through journalists. Zuckerberg acknowledges that at the time, Facebook freely allowed access to the data of the friends of the people who had downloaded apps. "Given the way our platform worked at the time this meant Kogan was able to access tens of millions of their friends' data," Zuckerberg said. As a result of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Facebook will further tighten its rules and reduce the amount of data developers can access, to prevent further abuse.    

[w609] 

[w610]      New sting video raises questions about Cambridge Analytica's elections work  Pedestrians pass the building that houses the offices of Cambridge Analytica in London.            One challenge in assessing claims made by Cambridge Analytica in undercover videos released by Britain's Channel 4 News is that the firm, by its nature, misrepresents the truth. It's a political and marketing firm that purports to be able to help clients target specific people with specific messages based on detailed psychological profiles of their behaviour. But, in practice, Cambridge seems instead to focus on fairly typical marketing efforts. In 2005, the online magazine Slate described the then-new parent company of Cambridge, SCL Group, as "simply hawking a flashier version of propaganda." Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Reporting on Cambridge in recent months doesn't seem to deviate from that descriptor by much. Yesterday, Channel 4 News released video featuring Cambridge CEO Alexander Nix encouraging sting operations involving bribes and paid sex in an effort to swing a campaign in Sri Lanka. Today, a new video that deals specifically with Cambridge's work in the United States during the 2016 election raises more significant questions about the role the firm played. Cambridge was hired by the Donald Trump campaign in June 2016, as Trump's push to the general election started to slowly organise. The rationale behind that hire appears to be in large part to secure the support of the wealthy Mercer family, which helped found and fund Cambridge and which, ultimately, did mobilise behind Trump's candidacy. Reporter: “So the candidate is the puppet?" Cambridge Analytica: “Always.” EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump's campaign consultants secretly filmed discussing US politics. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/Q8dfb1kCaN — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 There are a few questions that have surrounded Cambridge's role in Trump's campaign. For one thing, the firm was employed both by Trump's campaign and by a pro-Trump independent group called Make America Number 1 PAC. That group was a vehicle for the Mercer family to spend unlimited funds advocating for Trump's candidacy. Legally, outside PACs running what are called "independent expenditure" efforts, or IEs, can't coordinate on strategy with campaigns themselves. The rationale is simple: If an outside group that has no contribution limits could work with a campaign on strategy and tactics, there is essentially no point in having campaign limits at all. The campaign could simply tell the IE how to spend all of its millions of dollars. Related articles: Controversial data firm Cambridge Analytica linked with The Warehouse   Firm had reach beyond US elections  There are also questions about whether any elements of the Trump campaign or its allies coordinated with Russian efforts to interfere in the election. McClatchy reported in July that special counsel Robert Mueller's investigators were looking into whether anyone from Trump's team or Cambridge coordinated message-targeting with Russian actors.         That overlap got a boost last month when Mueller charged 13 Russians with illegally trying to influence Americans on social media during the election. It included detailed descriptions of how the Russians sought to foment division by highlighting controversial subjects and, specifically, to tamp down turnout by encouraging black voters to abstain from voting. Shortly before the election, that same strategy was highlighted in a Bloomberg report that focused on Trump's digital team - a team that involved Cambridge. "We have three major voter suppression operations underway," an unnamed senior official told Bloomberg 's reporters. "They're aimed at three groups Clinton needs to win overwhelmingly: idealistic white liberals, young women, and African Americans." The campaign later denied that this was the case. Watch the full documentary #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered https://t.co/EW3uLuhzON — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 All of which brings us to new footage released by Channel 4 News today. In it, Nix - who was suspended as Cambridge's chief executive earlier in the day - and managing director Mark Turnbull describe the specific efforts they undertook on behalf of Trump's campaign. Turnbull explained that campaigns try to stay on the high road, instead letting outside groups pick up negative information about their opponents. The language he used was interesting: "Sometimes you can use proxy organisations who are already there," he said. "You feed them. . . . We use them - feed them the material and they do the work." Going out on a limb: role of big data overstated in last few elections. Obama & Trump won electoral victories largely because of messages they conveyed, not media they used. — Jeet Heer (@HeerJeet) March 20, 2018 Data analytics are important part of modern campaign. But, just one part. Most important are candidate quality and salient message. The best algorithms or 'psychological mapping' can't make up for bad candidates and bad message. — amy walter (@amyewalter) March 20, 2018 "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet and then watch it grow," he continued. "Give it a little push every now and again over time to watch it take shape. And so this stuff infiltrates the online community and expands but with no branding - so it's unattributable, untrackable." That split between campaigns staying clean and outside groups going dirty isn't new. But what Turnbull suggests - that they quietly leak information to those outside groups - is much more questionable. As a contractor with Trump's campaign, Cambridge can't coordinate with any outside groups - even outside groups for which Cambridge is also working. (Cambridge told Channel 4 News that there was a strict "firewall" inside the organisation that kept information from the Trump side away from information on the Make America Number 1 side.) Nor could Cambridge's Trump team give strategic advice or information to other outside groups that were involved in supporting Trump's campaign or in opposing Hillary Clinton's. It is entirely circumstantial, but we have to note the following coincidence. On the tape, Turnbull celebrates Cambridge's "Defeat Crooked Hillary" ads, produced on behalf of Make America Number 1. The Os in "crooked" were transformed into handcuffs - imagery that mirrored Russian interference efforts. The whole "only needed to sway 70k votes" to change 2016 is a bit of a misdirection when we're talking about national issues like Comey or Cambridge Analytica. We're really talking about shifting the popular vote 1 percentage point. 1/ — Sean T at RCP (@SeanTrende) March 20, 2018 Among the more complicated schemes the Russians deployed, according to Mueller's indictment, was hiring an American to dress as Clinton in prison garb and stand on display at a campaign event in a makeshift cage. The Russians, it seems, picked up the criminal-Clinton idea from the bloodstream. Any question of Cambridge advocating improper communication between campaign efforts was reinforced by Nix's description of using an email system that deleted messages after a short period - eliminating a paper trail. It was one reason that he appeared to be unconcerned about federal investigators unwinding the firm's campaign work. Another reason was that he was dismissive of the investigators. Nix criticised the House Intelligence Committee's now-ended investigation into Russian interference efforts, noting that his appearance before the committee by videoconference lasted five minutes and consisted of three questions. "They're politicians, they're not technical," he said. "They don't understand how it works." “There’s no paper trail… [We set our] emails with a self-destruct timer.” EXCLUSIVE: Trump’s election consultants secretly filmed revealing how they cover their tracks. #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA pic.twitter.com/63M4clwAkq — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Later in the conversation, Nix suggested that the Channel 4 News reporters - posing as Sri Lankan campaign employees - set up email accounts using Protonmail, a Switzerland-based company that automatically destroys emails after a set period. Last week, the Intercept 's Sam Biddle reported that an Administration employee, Ryan McAvoy, accidentally left his own Protonmail account information on White House stationery at a nearby bus stop. Again, it's hard to determine where Cambridge Analytica's self-promotion ends and where an accurate description of what it undertook begins. The firm denied any allegations of impropriety when approached by Channel 4 News , including claims that it had actually helped elect Trump. "CA has never claimed it won the election for President Trump," its statement read. "This is patently absurd. We are proud of the work we did on that campaign, and have spoken in many public forums about what we consider to be our contribution to the campaign." Watch the full documentary here #CambridgeAnalyticaUSA https://t.co/YzCJIPZser — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 20, 2018 Nix had claimed that Cambridge "did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy." That, Turnbull said at another point, was more than enough to make up the narrow margin of difference in three Midwestern states. On November 6, 2016, two days before the election, TechCrunch interviewed Nix. "When we got to Trump's campaign in June 2016, whenever it was," Nix said, "there it was there was five and a half months till the elections." The firm, he claimed, simply didn't have time to work its magic by creating those specific psychological profiles. Of course, at that point, Nix probably thought Trump was going to lose. The smart marketing play was to argue that his firm didn't have time to work its craft. A few days later - and when talking to Channel 4 News ' undercover reporters - the smart play was to take credit for the win. After the videotape of that conversation came out? Cambridge's role is again downplayed.   


[w611]      Mark Zuckerberg has gone quiet during growing Facebook backlash  CEO Mark Zuckerberg has remained silent and was reportedly AWOL during a crisis meeting at the company's HQ this week to talk about its role in the scandal.            Facebook remains in damage control in the face of global criticism over how a third party allegedly used data from 50 million user profiles to target them with messages to sway political elections. The story has rocked the social media giant which is having its worst week since going public in 2012. CEO Mark Zuckerberg has remained silent and was reportedly AWOL during a crisis meeting at the company's HQ this week to talk about its role in the scandal.         Another whistleblower has since come forward saying the data analysis firm at the centre of the firestorm, Cambridge Analytica, is far from the only such company to have harvested the data of unwitting Facebook users. Advertisement Advertise with NZME. Sandy Parakilas, the platform operations manager at Facebook responsible for policing data breaches by third-party software developers between 2011 and 2012 told The Guardian Tuesday that hundreds of millions of Facebook users are likely to have had their private information exploited in the same manner. "My concerns were that all of the data that left Facebook servers to developers could not be monitored by Facebook, so we had no idea what developers were doing with the data," he said.         The former employee said he "always assumed there was something of a black market" for Facebook data given to third party developers but company execs preferred not to know about it. His comments are by no means revelatory but they come at a time when the public is more eager than ever to sit up and take notice. A wave of people have taken to social media to declare they have deleted their profile as the public backlash against Facebook's handling of user data grows. Even the co-founder of WhatsApp — now owned by Facebook — took to Twitter to tell his followers to delete their profile. Related articles: Two words Facebook boss lives to regret 20 Mar, 2018 8:25pm  How Facebook apps get permission to stalk you 21 Mar, 2018 4:57am  Juha Saarinen: Balancing act unwinding Facebook mess 21 Mar, 2018 5:00am  EU officials put heat on Zuckerberg 21 Mar, 2018 8:16am It is time. #deletefacebook — Brian Acton (@brianacton) March 20, 2018 FACEBOOK'S PETTY RESPONSE Since the fallout, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has gone quiet. But it is one facet of the company's response - a decision to ban the whistleblower who broke the story from its platform — that has been most widely criticised. "Suspended by Facebook. For blowing the whistle. On something they have known privately for 2 years," the Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie wrote on Twitter after he helped break the story. A picture posted to social media this morning showed how the messages he previously sent to friends on the service have now been deleted on the grounds of being "abusive" or "spam," with Wylie confirming "I've been deleted." He has also been banned from the Facebook-owned Instagram platform. A friend of Facebook whistleblower @chrisinsilico shows me his posts to friends on Messenger are now blocked by Facebook as abusive or spam pic.twitter.com/zveQW8tbDK — Damian Collins (@DamianCollins) March 20, 2018 Wylie said he regrets working on the company's software which exploited peoples' "inner demons" to target them with specific politically charged messages. On Tuesday he told a packed audience at the Frontline Club, a media organisation in London, that he is sorry he had worked for Cambridge Analytica. When asked if he would compare himself to other whistleblowers, such as Daniel Ellsberg or Edward Snowden, he reportedly demurred, saying his decision to come forward was more about contrition. It's been a good 48 hours by now. Mark Zuckerberg hasn't had a chance to post anything about this controversy on his Facebook page. pic.twitter.com/IlEfY6NY2e — Graham Cluley (@gcluley) March 20, 2018 'THERE'S NO PAPER TRAIL, THERE'S NOTHING' The story of Cambridge Analytica's antics has engulfed the social media giant but this is the world we live in now. What the data analysis firm, and what other companies like it do shouldn't necessarily come as a shock to anybody. Using data to build sophisticated profiles on segments of the population to target them with advertising (or in this case politically themed messages or fake news) has become the aim of the game for many companies in the digital age. Big data is big business and Facebook just happens to have some of the richest data sets. But the dubious way in which Cambridge Analytica acquired it, technically in violation of Facebook's rules, and the particularly nefarious ends to which they used it has been the most troubling part of the story. Cambridge Analytica's board of directors have now suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending an investigation after he boasted of various unsavoury services to an undercover reporter for Britain's Channel 4 News.         In its third TV segment covering the story, this morning Channel 4 News broadcast clips that showed Nix saying his data-mining firm played a major role in securing Donald Trump's victory in the 2016 presidential election. Nix said the firm handled "all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting" and said the firm used emails with a "self-destruct timer" to make its role more difficult to trace. "There's no evidence, there's no paper trail, there's nothing," he said. the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation." The company has denied wrongdoing and Trump's campaign has said it didn't use Cambridge's data.          

[w613] 

[w614] The Cambridge Analytica-Facebook debacle explained  What is Cambridge Analytica?  by Late on Friday, Facebook made an unexpected announcement: The data firm Cambridge Analytica, hyped as integral to President Donald Trump's election – and trying to drum up work in Canberra –  was suspended from the social network for using data collected improperly from Facebook users . It is a complicated issue that many people might have missed, given the timing of the announcement. With that in mind, here is an overview of the groups involved, what happened – and what it means. 1. What is Cambridge Analytica? Cambridge Analytica is a data firm that promises its customers insights into consumer or voter behaviour.  Christopher Wylie, who helped found the data firm Cambridge Analytica and worked there until 2014.  Andrew Testa On the commercial side, that means tools like "audience segmentation" – breaking out advertising audiences into smaller groups – and then targeting advertisements to those groups on "multiple platforms". Advertisement Related Quotes  5 years 1 Day Last updated: Last updated:   ASX Announcements   On the political side, it is much the same thing, with one tweak. While advertisers generally target consumers as groups, political campaigns need to target specific people – registered voters receptive to a potential message. "Combining the precision of data analytics with the insights of behavioural psychology and the best of individually addressable advertising technology," the company's website pledges, "you can run a truly end-to-end campaign." And that is why Cambridge Analytica was created. Robert Mercer is a prominent conservative donor whose public profile rose sharply over the past few years. He and his daughter Rebekah invested millions in efforts to reshape conservative politics, funding Citizens United, the anti-mainstream-media Media Research Centre and Breitbart News. In 2013, Robert Mercer partnered with a British firm called SCL Group and its elections director Alexander Nix to test SCL's methodology in Virginia's governor's race, as The New York Times reported. Their candidate, Republican Ken Cuccinelli, lost. But the Mercers moved forward with a political data strategy anyway, partnering with Nix to create Cambridge Analytica, which would use SCL's data and methodology for political work.  Cambridge Analytica, a company part-owned by US billionaire Robert Mercer, used big data to help elect US President Donald Trump and secure victory for the Brexit "leave" campaign.  AP 2. What prompted the Facebook suspension? The key part of the Cambridge Analytica sales pitch is that "insights of behavioral psychology" line. There are lots of data companies that can tell you who's registered to vote, and there are lots of companies that compile consumer data on those same voters. This, in fact, was an instrumental part of Facebook's sales pitch to political campaigns (back before it quietly buried that pitch in the wake of questions about Russian interference in the 2016 election). After the 2014 election, we wrote about how Facebook offered campaigns a place to overlap their voter data (who's registered and basic demographic information) with Facebook's vast array of data on its users' behaviour. While most firms that collect data on consumer behaviour do so by tracking the bread crumbs we leave around our consumer culture – grocery store rewards cards, magazine subscriptions and so on – Facebook has the advantage that so many Americans tell the company precisely what they like, by quite literally clicking the "like" button.  Facebook's database of personal information may be the largest in the world, given that nearly a third of the globe has an account with the company.  Reuters Facebook's database of personal information may be the largest in the world, given that nearly a third of the globe has an account with the company. If you are a company looking to provide data services, you would justifiably be jealous of the information Facebook possesses. So Facebook (recognising an opportunity when it sees it) provides a way for software developers to build on top of their platform, allowing other companies to use their data under certain conditions. It used to be fairly trivial, in fact, for developers to build an application that would then pull a great deal of information from the site, including information about your friends' activity. In May 2014, the site announced it was tightening that access, beginning the following year. That change came slightly too late. To apply its "insights of behavioural psychology" to national politics, as the Mercers intended, the SCL/Cambridge team needed a lot of information about a lot of Americans. According to the Times 's report, a Cambridge employee named Christopher Wylie encountered a researcher at Cambridge University named Aleksandr Kogan. Kogan built an application that leveraged Facebook's tools to pull information from the site and then pitched its use using Amazon's Mechanical Turk, a tool that allows developers to hire humans (sometimes then referred to as "turkers") to do simple tasks for small fees.  Robert Mercer, the co-founder of Cambridge Analytica and a keen card player.  The Intercept reported on how it worked last year. "The task posted by 'Global Science Research' appeared ordinary, at least on the surface. The company offered turkers $1 or $2 to complete an online survey. But there were a couple of additional requirements as well. First, Global Science Research was only interested in American turkers. Second, the turkers had to download a Facebook app before they could collect payment. Global Science Research said the app would 'download some information about you and your network ... basic demographics and likes of categories, places, famous people, etc from you and your friends.' " Global Science Research was Kogan. Using this method, he gathered information on tens of millions of Americans. (The Times says more than 50 million; other outlets say 30 million.) That information was then used to build out SCL/Cambridge Analytica's profiles. In building his Facebook application, Kogan had pledged that his data collection was only for research purposes and that it would remain anonymised – not able to be linked to specific people. When The Guardian reported in late 2015 on the link between Kogan and Cambridge, it prompted Facebook to promise to investigate the situation. ( The Guardian 's story was pegged to Senator Ted Cruz's  presidential campaign using Cambridge Analytica for its voter contact efforts. Cruz was strongly supported by the Mercers, who also created well-funded outside groups to promote his candidacy.)  Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix.  Joshua Bright In its statement on Friday announcing the suspensions, Facebook carefully put the blame on Kogan misusing its tools and explained it had demanded in 2015 that Kogan, SCL and Cambridge delete its Facebook data. The suspension was prompted by learning last week – apparently after being contacted by the Times – that Cambridge was still in possession of some of the Facebook data. (The company denies that.) 3. Where does the Trump campaign fit into this? Trump's digital team was run by Brad Parscale, who last month was named campaign manager for Trump's 2020 effort. Trump's general election campaign was slow to get geared up after the primary and, by mid-2016, there was a debate over how to invest in digital marketing. Bolstered by Parscale's advocacy (and Jared Kushner's championing) the campaign hired Cambridge Analytica, over then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort's apparent objections. The decision may have been made easier, too, by Cambridge/SCL's role in the successful Brexit campaign in Britain the same month. As noted above, the Mercers had been hoping Cruz would be the Republican nominee. Once Trump won the Republican nomination, though, they shifted their focus. (The extent to which the hiring of Cambridge Analytica greased that transition is not clear.) They were reportedly instrumental in the August 2016 overhaul of Trump's campaign, recommending the hiring of both Stephen Bannon (from Breitbart) and Kellyanne Conway, who had been working for one of their pro-Cruz PACs. Over the last few months of the campaign, Parscale's team invested heavily in Facebook advertising, even hosting a Facebook employee at their Texas war room who helped guide their work. The advertising the campaign deployed was informed by Cambridge Analytica's data. Bloomberg reported on the data team shortly before the election and how Parscale managed the competing data from Cambridge and the Republican Party. "Parscale was building his own list of Trump supporters, beyond the RNC's reach," Bloomberg's Joshua Green and Sasha Issenberg wrote. "Cambridge Analytica's statistical models isolated likely supporters whom Parscale bombarded with ads on Facebook, while the campaign bought up email lists from the likes of Gingrich and Tea Party groups to prospect for others." 4. Where has Cambridge Analytica won elections?  Senator Ted Cruz's presidential campaign dropped Cambridge Analytica after finding it ineffective.  AP In most cases, it is very hard to identify one particular factor that made the difference in a political campaign. Despite the ubiquity of politicking, campaigns do not happen that often and, when they do, there are thousands of factors that make each contest unique. So analysing the effects of campaign tactics means perusing a small sample in which we are asked to compare apples to oranges to grapes to dogs to stars to love to six. This is hugely advantageous for political consulting firms because it is often hard to check their claims about how effective they are. Politicians are deeply superstitious and seize on their own and others' past successes to guide their decisions moving forward. What's more, the field of data-driven political persuasion is fairly new, meaning a company that can claim success in a realm many career politicians do not really understand has a huge marketing advantage. Say that you have cracked the code to targeting voters with specific messages, and a lot of campaigns will write you cheques. Cambridge Analytica has not been around that long, but they have been involved in several successful campaigns. There was Senator Thom Tillis' Republican Senate campaign in 2014, which he won by 1.5 points. There was the "Leave" campaign in the United Kingdom in 2016 which won by 3.8 points. And there was Trump, who lost the popular vote by 2.1 points but won the electoral college. There were also losing campaigns. Before Trump, the highest-profile effort Cambridge undertook was Cruz's – and he lost. Sure, he ended up in second place in the delegate count despite being fairly unpopular the year before, but his strategy was like Trump's: leverage a core base of support to ride out a crowded field of candidates. 


[w615] 

[w616] 

[w617] Facebook, Cambridge Analytica data breach: Carol Davidsen reveals Obama campaign’s data use  Former Facebook staffer, Obama campaign boss reveal concerns about Facebook data A FACEBOOK whistleblower has broken his silence as a key architect of Obama’s campaign revealed ‘creepy’ data they could access.  Facebook, Cambridge aware of data breach The Head of International Cyber Policy Center at ASPI Fergus Hanson has told Sky News, Facebook and Cambridge Analytica were aware of the data being used, as well as how it was being used. Mr Hanson says citizens need to be discerning in how they use these tools and how their data may be used against them.  A FORMER Facebook staffer responsible for policing data breaches inside the social media giant has broken his silence about the “horrifying” practices as outrage over user data grows. Sandy Parakilas worked as a Facebook platform operations manager between 2011 and 2012. He told The Guardian hundreds of millions of users are likely to have had their data unwittingly harvested by third party developers through a Friends Permission feature that left Facebook with “zero” control or oversight of user information. “Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on,” he said. Mr Parakilas said when he raised the issue with executives he was asked “Do you really want to see what you’ll find?” He told the newspaper he took that to mean that “Facebook was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening”. “They felt that it was better not to know. I found that utterly shocking and horrifying.” President Barack Obama’s campaign also targeted social media users. Picture: AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast. Mr Parakilas is due to give evidence to the UK government on Wednesday over what happened inside the social media giant that has since changed its policies and denies any wrongdoing. His comments come as a former digital adviser to President Obama revealed how the 2012 campaign was able to access extraordinary amounts of personal information through Facebook. Carol Davidsen, the Obama for America (OFA) former director of integration and media analytics, tweeted Facebook was “very candid” that it allowed the Democratic organisation to do certain things because it supported them politically. “Facebook was surprised we were able to suck out the whole social graph, but they didn’t stop us once they realised that was what we were doing,” she wrote in a series of tweets. MORE: What you need to know about the Facebook case “They came to [the] office in the days following election recruiting [and] were very candid that they allowed us to do things they wouldn’t have allowed someone else to do because they were on our side.” The woman named in 2013 as one of the “top 10 people in digital politics” by Business Insider said: “I am also 100 per cent positive that Facebook activity recruits and staffs people that are on the other side.” “I worked on all of the data integration projects at OFA. This was the only one that felt creepy, even though we played by the rules, and didn’t do anything I felt was ugly, with the data.” An example of how we used that data to append to our email lists. pic.twitter.com/VHhSukvXDY — Carol Davidsen (@cld276) March 19, 2018 Carol Davidsen said the 2012 Obama campaign was able to “scrape” Facebook user’s information. A Washington Post report on Tuesday claimed “thousands” of other developers including those behind game FarmVille and Tinder were also able to siphon information about Facebook users and their friends in order to understand their preferences. Facebook and UK research firm Cambridge Analytica are embroiled in a growing furore after whistleblower reports up to 50 million people may have had their data harvested for political purposes after some 270,000 people signed up to take an online quiz. MORE: The two words Zuckerberg regrets Both companies have denied any wrongdoing, however UK Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating allegations Cambridge Analytica gathered personal information in an unauthorised way and has asked Facebook executives to step aside. “Our advice to Facebook is to back away and let us go in and do our work,” she said. The news has been disastrous for Facebook leadership with politicians in the UK and US calling on founder Mark Zuckerberg to face up to questions in person, as shares in the company plunged nearly seven per cent. The US-based Federal Trade Commission is investigating how the two companies operated and has the power to issue fines of up to $US40,000 per user, if wrongdoing is found. Reports are also swirling about internal discord with the New York Times claiming Data Security boss Alex Stamos will step down by August. On Tuesday, he denied the reports saying: “I’m still fully engaged with my work at Facebook.” “It’s true that my role did change. I’m currently spending more time exploring emerging security risks and working on election security,” he said. Cambridge Analytica's chief executive officer Alexander Nix suggested sending Ukrainian women to a candidates house in an online video, but said he was framed in entrapment and denied wrongdoing. Picture: AFP PHOTO / PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA Meanwhile Cambridge Analaytica executives hit back after they were recorded on hidden cameras apparently discussing the services they could offer . Footage secretly recorded by Britain’s Channel 4 News showed managing director Mark Turnbull speaking about “putting information into the bloodstream of the internet”. “It has to happen without anyone thinking ‘that’s propaganda,’ he said. “Because the moment you think that’s propaganda the next question is ‘who’s put that out?’ So we have to be very subtle.” MORE: The surprising info Facebook has on you CEO Alexander Nix suggested sending Ukrainian women around to the houses of political candidates in a honeytrap-style example of what “can be done and what has been done”. The company claims the footage amounted to “entrapment” and said it is not alone in using social media to extract information on users. “In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios,” Mr Nix said. “I’m aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honeytraps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose.” Facebook has denied wrongdoing but CEO Mark Zuckerberg is facing questions about his data policy and enforcement. 


[w618]  Now you can try Brave's publisher donation system on Chrome, too An independent programmer extension for Chrome and Firefox taps into Brave Software's system anonymous payments to websites and YouTubers.          Chrome  and Firefox users who want a taste of the Brave browser can now get one with an extension called Batify that makes donations to websites, YouTubers and Twitch video game streamers . The Batify extension for Chrome  and for Firefox keeps tabs on what websites you visit and routes anonymous monthly payments to them depending on how many times you visit each and how much time you spend there. It relies on Brave Software's system for publisher authentication, though, and the vast majority of publishers aren't registered to receive payments. It's an early sign that Brave isn't the only one interested in a new way to fund online publishers -- in the form of the basic attention token (BAT) , not actual dollars or pounds or euros. "I don't earn anything," said Batify developer Michael Volz, who's also working on an Opera version of the extension. "I did this because I'm fascinated by the idea of Brave and BAT, liked the technical challenge and wanted to contribute to the ecosystem." The idea of paying for stuff that's free online may surprise you, but it happens. In an age when we're tired of ads or worried about just exactly how free sites are using our personal information (looking at you, Facebook and Cambridge Analytica), paying for what you like offers a refreshingly honest relationship between audience and content producer. BAT is based on the same blockchain technology that underpins cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and ether. Brave is funded in large measure by a sale of BAT that raised tens of millions of dollars in 2017. But BAT's point isn't to be a general-purpose cryptocurrency, just a way advertisers and readers can pay publishers. And the startup wants its BAT payment network eventually to spread beyond its own browser. "We're pleased to see such developer experimentation as we've always envisioned BAT as a technology that can be used outside of the Brave browser," the company said in a statement. "In the future, we plan to make a supported [programming interface] available for use in other products to fuel the growth of the BAT ecosystem." Before you jump in too far, be aware that for now the wallet system Batify and Brave use is one-way for ordinary browser users. In other words, you can fund the wallet but not retrieve your money for now, only donate it to publishers. Brave blocks ads and behavior-tracking software that's common on the web by default, but it also lets you set up contributions to online publishers. Those contributions today are funded by Brave giveaways and whatever you choose to pay out of your own pocket, but eventually Brave expects to offer to to show ads that can supply funding, too. Those ads will be targeted by the browser itself to protect privacy but it won't be enabled by default. 

[w619]  'Catastrophic failure of process': MPs demand answers from Facebook 'Catastrophic failure of process': MPs demand answers from Facebook  'Catastrophic failure of process': MPs demand answers from Facebook   MPs have demanded Facebook's chief executive Mark Zuckerberg appear in Westminster to face questions about the Cambridge Analytica data scandal engulfing the internet giant. The call came as Cambridge Analytica suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after he was secretly filmed by Channel 4 News claiming the UK data firm played a central role in Donald Trump's election victory and boasting of how to use bribes and women to swing elections. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Photo: AP The British firm said Nix would be suspended pending a "full, independent investigation" into his comments and allegations, which it said did not reflect the company's values. Facebook has been put under growing pressure since it suspended Cambridge Analytica on Friday night. It has since been accused of failing to protect 50 million of its users whose data was obtained by Cambridge Analytica. The British firm denies it failed to delete the data when ordered to in 2015 and says it was not used in the 2016 US presidential election. Damian Collins, the chairman of the digital, culture, media and sport committee, wrote to Mr Zuckerberg yesterday calling on the tech billionaire to give evidence in person. Advertisement He said the committee had repeatedly questioned Facebook representatives as part of its inquiry into fake news and how social media may have been exploited to meddle in elections. Collins said Facebook representatives had "consistently understated" the risk to the public from companies who obtained data from the social network and said the group's answers on the matter had been misleading. He wrote: "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process. We are sure you will understand the need for a representative from right at the top of the organisation to address concerns." Damian Collins, chairman of UK House of Commons' digital culture and sport committee, has asked Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to face the House of Commons. Photo: Bloomberg Collins said he hoped Zuckerberg would appear, and gave him a deadline of Monday to respond. US Senator Dianne Feinstein, a member of the judiciary committee, also demanded Zuckerberg testify before the US Congress. Meanwhile, MPs will today question an ex-Facebook employee who claims many more users could have had data stolen using the same methods as Cambridge Analytica. Sandy Parakilas, a former operations manager, claimed he had warned superiors that Facebook was handing too much data over to third-party apps but that his efforts had gone unheeded. "We had no idea what developers were doing with the data," Parakilas told The Guardian . More pressure was put on Facebook last night as American regulators opened an investigation into the company. The US Federal Trade Commission is reportedly assessing whether it broke a 2011 settlement with the agency in which it agreed to obtain consent when sharing data. Facebook's shares fell for a second session yesterday, closing down nearly 3pc. Since the scandal emerged they have dropped by more than 9pc, with the company losing nearly $50bn in value. 


[w620] Cambridge Analytica scandal 'another nail in the coffin of trust'  The revelation that Cambridge Analytica breached Facebook rules to harvest up to 60 million user profiles for nefarious purposes is “just another nail in the coffin of trust” for the marketing industry, one of adland's leading thinkers has warned. Thinkerbell co-founder Adam Ferrier believes the saga will only compound marketers' fears of how they should manage and control the “copious amounts of data we all have”. Ferrier, who has a background in consumer psychology, tells AdNews there is a growing sense of anxiety in the industry that data security is “out of control” and that tech firms need to take a long-term view on innovation and “make sure things are fully thought through before being taken to market”. “What I find fascinating is that people are building new toys and not realising the impact that those toys have. They are not looking at the ripple on effect of the decisions that they make,” Ferrier says. “Facebook, just like any other organisation, is trying to work out the rules of data as we go.... [but] it is getting increasingly difficult to work that out. “People are building things with the intentions of doing good but they get easily usurped by people who use these platforms in destructive ways. It's getting more and more difficult to ensure that what you are doing isn't corrupted and I think Facebook is finding that out very quickly.” 'Nobody is in control' Ferrier says the breach of the rules by Cambridge Analytica “taps into that fear of who's in control” and that “nobody quite knows where the next loophole is”. “It makes it very apparent that nobody is really in control and really knows what's going on or how their system or their platform is going to be exploited or used. It raises everybody's anxiety,” he adds. “Self regulation in this industry is proving to be increasingly difficult.” In response to the revelations, Facebook has suspended the accounts of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, Strategic Communication Laboratories (SCL) and the whistleblower Christopher Wylie. Over the weekend, Wylie revealed to the Observer and New York Times the inner workings of Cambridge Analytica and how it breached Facebook policy to harvest millions of voter profiles for a propaganda campaign to promote US president Donald Trump during the 2016 US election. AdNews summarised the main allegations yesterday. Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Chris Wylie. Facebook's response In a blog , Facebook VP and deputy general counsel Paul Grewal explained that although Cambridge University professor Aleksandr Kogan legitimately gained access to individuals data through an app, he breached Facebook policy by sharing that data with a third party (Cambridge Analytica and SCL) as well as refusing Facebook's demands to delete the data when the social network discovered the scam in 2015. Since 2014, Facebook has allowed individuals to choose what information they share with app developers, such as details about their friends list or birthday. This raises questions about why Facebook ever allowed developers to access data from an app users friends list. In a Facebook post published yesterday, Facebook VP of AR/VR Andrew Bosworth explained that Facebook believed “every app could be social”. “Your calendar should have your events and your friends birthdays, your maps should know where your friends live, your address book should show their pictures. It was a reasonable vision but it didn't materialize the way we had hoped,” Bosworth said. “We made a change three years ago to limit developer access to detailed friend data. The extent of information Kogan's app accessed is no longer possible today.” Bosworth added that Facebook also decided against suspending Cambridge Analytica, SCL, Kogan and Wylie in 2015 because they had “certified in a legal document that they had deleted the data”. “We are serious about protecting our community and their data. This issue can no longer happen the way it did given what we fixed in the product three years ago, but that doesn't change what happened. It's a breach of trust,” Bosworth added. Ferrier believes the issue is another “wake-up call” that will leave Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg “genuinely mortified and confused” only a few months after he declared he would to fix Facebook. Zuckerberg's more immediate concerns could be to front up to UK Parliament. British MP Damian Collins, who is leading an inquiry into 'fake news', has summoned the Facebook boss to answer questions about the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Ferrier's point about trust is likely to come up. 

[w621]  Cambridge Analytica controversy: Australian political parties ramp up data campaigning Cambridge Analytica controversy: Australian political parties ramp up data campaigning  Cambridge Analytica controversy: Australian political parties ramp up data campaigning  It's election time and armies of political party volunteers are deployed to suburban streets across Australia to campaign for their candidates. But instead of going to the effort of hitting every home, the volunteers pull out tablets or phones and open an application pinpointing the residences where they will find the swinging voters they need to win over. A few clicks and the app goes deeper, containing a goldmine of valuable information about the person: their personal characteristics, the issues they care about, their declared political leanings. Welcome to politics in 2018. It's a combination of long-held fundamentals – persuasive policy messages, the importance of strong candidates, focusing on the right voters – with the rapidly advancing use of personal information and data science to deliver finely tuned, highly targeted campaigns.  Replay This type of campaigning has exploded over the past decade and is under renewed scrutiny following revelations about the United States-based Cambridge Analytica – a notorious Trump-aligned "big data" firm that is accused of accessing the personal data of 50 million Facebook users without authorisation and engaging in unethical tactics. Advertisement Cambridge Analytica has now set up shop in Australia but, even before these latest claims, appears to have had little luck convincing the country's major political parties to sign up. The firm has baggage from its origins and practices in the US, where it helped with the upset victory of President Donald Trump. But Cambridge Analytica is far from the only business involved in the booming data mining and micro-targeting sector. i360, a conservative-aligned platform funded by the US billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, is now being deployed in Australia and its practical value was on display in the South Australian election campaign over recent weeks. The state's Liberal Party has signed up with the service, which allows them to feed in information political parties have long collected about voters – electoral roll data, nuggets from their prior contact with a local MP, public statements on politics – with further insights gained from social media activity.  New South Australian Liberal Premier Stephen Marshall. Photo: AAP The end result is political parties delivering personalised messages to voters across social media and the more traditional channels such as door knocking, phone calls and direct mail. One Liberal insider said it allowed the party to dramatically improve its ground campaign across South Australia, especially in marginal seats that were critical to victory. Another said it was an "amazing, amazing piece of equipment" but was only as good as the data fed into it. The source said the Liberal Party was currently using a fraction of the service's potential. i360's use in SA, where the party is leaving the ageing in-house "Feedback" software behind, is only the beginning. The Victorian Liberals are preparing to use the American service in the upcoming state election. There is potential for wider adoption eventually. "It’s got this infinite potential but we’re only now scaling up how we can use it," one Liberal said.  Leading privacy specialist Anna Johnston, director of Salinger Privacy and a former NSW deputy privacy commissioner, is concerned by the lack of accountability and transparency surrounding the political use of personal data. Politicians at all levels and registered parties are exempt from the Privacy Act, which governs data collection, use and disclosure by almost all businesses. "The upshot is that political parties can collect that information without us having the foggiest," Johnston says.  "Until the exemption is abolished – and I think it should be – we as citizens have no right to ask the parties what data they hold about us. There’s no obligation to keep that data secure, to use it only for appropriate purposes, to notify us when they’re collecting it." Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix at the company's New York office. Photo: Washington Post Attorney-General Christian Porter says the exemption is "designed to encourage freedom of political communication and support the operation of the electoral and political process". "The exemption does not authorise entities who are subject to the Privacy Act to disclose personal information that will be used by politicians or registered political parties for political purposes," Porter said. That's an important distinction from the situation in the United States, where scant privacy laws have allowed a vast industry to thrive around data mining and broking for use in politics, business and more. Cambridge Analytica is the highest-profile purveyor. Chief executive Alexander Nix, in an interview with Fairfax Media , has described the privacy regime in the US as "permissive". Much of the data they are sweeping up has become a byproduct of daily consumer and lifestyle behaviour, with people regularly volunteering personal information that ends up being collected by data brokers and marketers. Nix's organisation is a spin-off brand of a British data science company called SCL Group that has done political, commercial and defence work across the world. The offshoot was established with investment from conservative American hedge-fund billionaire Robert Mercer and boasted nationalist former White House adviser Stephen Bannon on its board. Rising to prominence after backing a series of Republican candidates, most notably Trump, the firm says it has amassed up to 5000 data points on every individual American. According to the company, their point of difference is to fuse this information with "psychographic" personality insights obtained in hundreds of thousands of surveys, creating a model that profiles individual voters. US political strategists and observers are divided over how much Cambridge Analytica really contributed to the success of the Trump campaign. The company has certainly made an effort to craft a mysterious and polished image. But the firm's move to Australia has been greeted with scepticism. There was at least one meeting with the Liberal side of politics. One party source said their strategists did their research on Cambridge Analytica and concluded its power was over-hyped. There was also awareness of its Trump-laden reputation. A Labor source was more frank: "They are involved in some dark and dangerous shit, we are going nowhere near them." Fairfax Media understands that in October last year, Labor's national secretary Noah Carroll told a meeting of opposition staff that the firm was establishing itself in Australia but said the party would not be getting involved because of Cambridge Analytica's values, connections and record. Fairfax Media has also been told Labor is largely satisfied with its ability to mount digital campaigns and doesn't see a need for the services on offer. The latest claims against Cambridge Analytica concern their inappropriate acquisition of data from researcher Alexandr Kogan, who had collected it from 270,000 Facebook users who downloaded his survey app. The data included details from their personal profiles and from their friends, ultimately capturing the information of up to 50 million people. Australia's information and privacy commissioner, Timothy Pilgrim, said his office was making inquiries with Facebook as to whether the data of Australians was captured. "I will consider Facebook’s response and whether any further regulatory action is required," Pilgrim said in a statement. He pointed to the commissioner's powers to investigate and penalise alleged breaches of the Privacy Act. One Liberal operative said the Cambridge Analytica controversy had vindicated the wariness in some corners about adopting these cutting-edge, third party services. "The only way you can guarantee the integrity of data is by controlling the platform," the person said. "You can protect the data and know you’re complying with all laws." 

[w622]  Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended after boasts of 'putting Trump in White House' Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended after boasts of 'putting Trump in White House' Skip to sections navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Our network Subscribe Log In The Sydney Morning Herald Subscribe - close Search Site Sections Network Home Sydney NSW Politics Federal NSW Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Business The economy Markets Companies Banking & finance Small business Consumer affairs Workplace World North America Europe Asia Middle East Oceania Central America South America Africa National Victoria Queensland ACT Western Australia Opinion Property Sport NRL Rugby Union AFL Soccer Cricket Racing Motorsport Netball Cycling Tennis Basketball Golf NFL Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Celebrity Books Comedy Dance Musicals Opera Theatre Art & design TV guide Lifestyle Life & relationships Health & wellness Fashion Beauty Horoscopes Money Super & retirement Investing Banking Borrowing Saving Tax Planning & budgeting Insurance Education Healthcare Environment Conservation Climate Change Sustainability Weather Technology Cars Travel Food & wine Executive style Today's Paper For subscribers Letters Editorial Column 8 Obituaries Good Weekend Quizzes Weather The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Brisbane Times WAtoday The Canberra Times The Australian Financial Review Domain Commercial Real Estate Allhomes Drive Good Food Traveller Executive Style Over Sixty Essential Baby Essential Kids Find A Babysitter The Store Weatherzone RSVP Adzuna Advertisement World Europe Donald Trump Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended after boasts of 'putting Trump in White House' By Nick Miller Normal text size Larger text size Very large text size Replay London:   Secretive British data company Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO Alexander Nix after he boasted to undercover journalists about using honey traps, misinformation campaigns and bribery stings to influence election campaigns. The announcement came as the UK's Channel 4 News revealed executives claiming they were the power behind Donald Trump’s election campaign. Channel 4 had recorded Nix and others from CA promoting their services to an undercover reporter. Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica (CA) Alexander Nix, leaves the offices in central London after being suspended. Photo: AP Nix claimed CA “did all the research, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy” for Trump. They said their mastery of data analytics allowed the Trump campaign to target the voters who would win him the White House – pointing out that he lost the popular vote by 3 million people but won by influencing “40,000 votes in three states”. Advertisement Cambridge Analytica executives as portrayed in the Channel 4 expose. They claimed the political candidate was just a “puppet” in this kind of campaign. They boasted of developing the “Defeat Crooked Hillary” slogan into hundreds of internet memes which they seeded and boosted on social media. Mark Turnbull, managing director of CA’s political division, said they used “charities or activist groups” to “put information into the bloodstream of the internet and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again over time to watch it take shape. And so this stuff infiltrates the online community and expands but with no branding so it’s unattributable, untrackable”. And they revealed that they used a secret email service called ProtonMail – developed and based in Switzerland – to send messages that self-destructed after being read, to prevent leaving an auditable trail of their actions. On Tuesday the CA board said Nix was suspended with immediate effect pending a full, independent investigation. “In the view of the Board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” they said in a statement. They were referring to the previous night’s Channel 4 report, in which undercover footage showed executives from CA talking about dirty tricks they might use to support political campaigns. These included working with former spies to dig up political dirt, offering incumbents “a deal that’s too good to be true and make sure that’s video recorded”, or sending “some girls around to the candidates’ house… some Ukrainians on holiday with us, you know what I’m saying”. The UK’s Information Commissioner is seeking a warrant to search CA’s London office to investigate claims that CA used Facebook data gathered without the social media giant’s permission, or its users’ knowledge of the purpose it was being gathered for. 

[w623] Cambridge Analytica began testing out pro-Trump slogans the same year Russia launched its influence operation targeting the 2016 election 


[w624] Facebook tracks a scary number of details about you -- here's how to find out everything it knows 


[w625] 

[w626] Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO amid uproar over Facebook data leak 

[w627] 

[w628] 

[w629]  $US60b wiped off value of Facebook shares    $US60b wiped off value of Facebook shares  The data breach by Cambridge Analytica continues to affect Facebook, with more than $US60 billion being wiped off the social giant's market capitalisation.    Shares of Facebook have continued their downward slide as investors feared regulatory repercussions after revelations about the company's mishandling of data on 50 million users. Facebook's stock was down 5.3 per cent as of 1.10pm local time in New York trading on Tuesday, after a 6.8 per cent drop on Monday. As of midday on Tuesday, the decline had wiped out around $US63 billion ($A82 billion) of the company's market value since last Friday's closing price, with its market cap at around $US475 billion. Facebook's woes also dragged down Twitter, whose share price tumbled more than 10 per cent on Tuesday amid concerns it, too, could be subjected to new government regulations. Shares of Snap, parent company of Snapchat, were down 2.8 per cent. The Wall Street sell-off comes after reports that Facebook user data was improperly obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm used by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Last Friday, Facebook announced that it kicked Cambridge Analytica and its parent company off the platform, claiming the researcher who provided the data to them violated Facebook's policies. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have denied that the user data was used as part of the firm's work for the Trump campaign. Among new developments, the Federal Trade Commission has launched an investigation into whether Facebook violated the terms of its 2011 consent decree with the agency, Bloomberg reported. Under that agreement, Facebook committed to explicitly obtaining user consent for certain changes to privacy settings after the FTC alleged Facebook misled consumers and into sharing more personal information than they intended. Facebook confirmed that it expected to receive an inquiry letter from the FTC this week. "We remain strongly committed to protecting people's information," Facebook deputy chief privacy officer Rob Sherman said in a statement. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have." Facebook was said to be holding all-hands-on-deck meetings with employees about the situation on Tuesday. In addition, the UK's House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee on Tuesday requested that CEO Mark Zuckerberg appear before its Fake News inquiry to explain the Cambridge Analytica situation. That came after US lawmakers issued calls for similar hearings. Some Wall Street analysts believe Facebook won't suffer any long-term setbacks from the latest controversy. "We see notable issues, but believe FB will work through them," CFRA Research's Scott Kessler wrote in a note Monday, reiterating the firm's "buy" rating on the stock. So far, top Facebook execs including Zuckerberg have stayed silent on the controversy. 

[w630]     Papua New Guinea banning Facebook for a month to conduct research Tech groups raise concerns EU ePrivacy plan could kill innovation   As the Facebook and Cambridge Analytica saga unfolds, how did social media become such a threat to democracy? John Kennedy investigates. “Asleep or awake, working or eating, indoors or out of doors, in the bath or in bed — no escape, Big Brother is watching you,” George Orwell wrote prophetically in his book Nineteen Eighty-Four . From his vantage point of 1949, as he watched the world plunge into a Cold War, Orwell might have gotten the year wrong, but he was right on the money about what was coming. And now, we have gone from the Cold War to the Social Media War. This is war we never could imagine, and one in which we are all just cannon fodder, whether we like to admit it or not. We offer up insights and clues daily, and, sadly – as the US elections of 2016 proved – some of us are pretty much being told what to think, or manipulated into what we should think, not so much by an imaginary Big Brother, but potentially a vast family of Big Brothers with diverse methods, politics and intentions. The explosive  Observer investigation at the weekend into Cambridge Analytica and how it is alleged to have improperly gained access to data on 50m Facebook users shocked the world. It took a seedier turn when Channel 4 video footage also emerged last night (19 March) indicating how Cold War-era tactics such as entrapping politicians with sex and bribes could also be used to manipulate elections to suit a corporate objective. For some time now, Facebook has been firefighting insinuations of how fake news and manipulation of ads on its network by Russian cyber gangs contributed to the election of Donald Trump as president of the US. The implication is that not only are nation states trying to manipulate social media, but third parties can do it, too – for the highest bidder. And, as allegations continue to surface around how Cambridge Analytica was able to get data on 50m Facebook users in the first place using a third-party app, the social network has seen its share value plunge 7pc, wiping nearly $40bn off its market value as investors, worried about how new regulations could damage Facebook’s advertising business, take flight. I don’t think Mark Zuckerberg ever intended for Facebook to have been abused the way it has been alleged to by nation states or businesses. I genuinely believe he wants to make the world a better place. But, in many ways, the onset of social media, with billions of people offering up their own data to the social shrine, has sadly and predictably become a godsend for those who work in the shadows. In war, any war, information is power It does not help Facebook that, just as it grapples with how it has been used to spread disinformation for political purposes, the social network’s chief information security officer (CISO), Alex Stamos, is leaving the company. I met Stamos in 2016 at the Web Summit in Lisbon – ironically, the same week that Trump was elected – and found him to be a conscientious and talented asset for Facebook. However, it turns out that Stamos is leaving over a disagreement over how much Facebook should publicly share about how nation states misused the platform, and debate over organisational changes in the run-up to the 2018 midterm elections in the US. Apparently, Stamos advocated more disclosure about Russian interference and meddling with the network, but was met with resistance. It did not help – and it is extremely ironic, considering the scrutiny that Facebook is under from an infosec perspective – that Stamos’s CISO office had been reduced in size from 120 down to just three people. For its part, Facebook said yesterday that it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data. “Auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytica’s London office this evening,” the company said in a statement. “At the request of the UK Information Commissioner’s Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down.” For its part, Cambridge Analytica has denied media claims , and said that it deleted all Facebook data that it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning of the conflict with data protection regulation. The company has also rejected allegations emerging from secretly taped interviews with senior executives that portrayed them boasting of their ability to sway elections in countries around the world such as Sri Lanka by using data and political manipulation. Regulation is coming Facebook’s battle is really about taking its head out of the sand, facing up to the reality that people are trying to manipulate the platform in turn to manipulate users, and effectively proving to the masses that it really has the ordinary user’s interests – their privacy and safety – at heart. Whether Facebook or Wall Street or the wider Silicon Valley like it or not, greater regulation is coming. In Europe – thanks to the work of campaigning lawyer Max Schrems – we have gotten accustomed to debates around what internet giants are doing with our data and resulting regulatory intensity. With the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) becoming law in May across the EU, tech companies are now going to be under greater-than-ever regulatory security both sides of the Atlantic. Various attorneys general of US states are about to launch inquiries into Facebook’s data policies. Not only that, but the US Senate is expected to progress a bill that would chip away at the internet industry’s legal shield, a law known as Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, with new legislation to tackle online sex traffic. The lid on a virtual Pandora’s box has been lifted and it could be the biggest existential battle Facebook has faced in its short 14-year history. It’s not a dystopian fantasy, it is today’s reality Whether most users realise it or not; whether you use social networks such as Facebook or Twitter, or just consider yourself a private citizen with no interest in social media, you are on the frontline of a dangerous new epoch in human history. If you have a computer or carry a mobile device, you are a node on a new battlefield. The weapons aren’t bullets – they are your thoughts, persuasions or backdoors into your prejudices or your bank accounts. And, willingly, we all subscribe to the echo chambers we choose to understand or affiliate with. Most devices – despite using the latest antivirus systems – may have already been compromised because most internet security players are behind on security threat detection. It is a game of cat-and-mouse between tech firms and hackers; some working for themselves, some in the pocket of corporations or nation states. And ordinary users are mere cannon fodder. Most up-to-date devices already have malware inside waiting for a digital foot soldier belonging to Russia, China, Israel or the US to just hit the button. As it emerged on Friday (16 March), the US has officially warned that Russian hackers have already been shown to have gained access to energy grids, nuclear power facilities and water facilities in the US. That alert was based on a report by Symantec last October. If that isn’t worrying enough, the fact that shadowy interests can manipulate the masses to suit their intentions is terrifying. That alone is the single greatest threat to world democracy in the 73 or so years since the end of World War II. And it is only now that we are getting our heads around the vulnerabilities of our privacy. As this unfolds, ask yourself: what is the right side? And who is the enemy? 

[w631]  'Appearances can be deceptive' - CEO falls on sword, but did Cambridge Analytica swing the US election for Trump?   


[w632] Data Bill would ‘create free-for-all’ for harvesting data on political views 

[w633]   MPs air concerns over Cambridge Analytica disclosures  Politicians from across the House of Commons have been airing their concerns over the use of Facebook data by the company Cambridge Analytica, which has boasted about using personal information to target voters during elections. Downing Street released a statement calling the breach “very concerning” on Monday, but further disclosures in a Channel 4 News investigation have shown that the company discussed propaganda, disinformation and extortion tactics with prospective clients. Liam Byrne, Labour’s shadow minister for digital, called the combination of big data companies and foreign powers an “unholy alliance” which demanded legislation to stop any “interfering in our democracy”. Why the law must change to stop an unholy alliance of bad companies and bad countries interfering in our democracy #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered https://t.co/Q6Vy8RTmUB — Liam (@LiamByrneMP) March 20, 2018 Lord Ashdown suggested making personal data the same as personal property in the eyes of the law, including the right to take a share of any profits. Cambridge Analytica & data harvesting: the only protection is to set in law that personal data is part of individual property to which they have full property rights and that this cannot be used without their formal agreement, including the right to share in the profits created. — Paddy Ashdown (@paddyashdown) March 20, 2018 “Cambridge Analytica & data harvesting: the only protection is to set in law that personal data is part of individual property to which they have full property rights and that this cannot be used without their formal agreement, including the right to share in the profits created,” he wrote. And Darren Jones, a Labour MP on the science and technology select committee, a shared concerns that the forthcoming data protection bill could give a “get-out clause” to companies like Cambridge Analytica. I've written to @margot_james_mp re concerns that Gov #DataProtectionBill amendments could've given #CambridgeAnalytica a get out clause. pic.twitter.com/7V2rzBjqKr — Darren Jones MP (@darrenpjones) March 20, 2018 Liberal Democrat leader Vince Cable took the opportunity to question Cambridge Analytica’s possible role in the Brexit vote. While the leaders of Leave.EU had previously boasted of using Cambridge Analytica’s services, they have since said a contract was never signed. “Now we need to find out if #CambridgeAnalytics [sic] and leak from #Facebook played a key role in #Brexit #Referendum,” wrote Mr Cable on Twitter. Now we need to find out if #CambridgeAnalytics and leak from #Facebook played a key role in #Brexit #Referendum . https://t.co/kmAmC0KV6q — Vince Cable (@vincecable) March 19, 2018 And as the hashtag #DeleteFacebook started to circulate online, the SNP’s Stewart McDonald admitted he deleted his page a year ago and predicted others would do the same. “Though I maintain an MP Facebook page for constituents, I’m now glad I deleted my personal Facebook page over a year ago,” he wrote. “Too full of advertising and obscure profiles requesting to be ‘friends’. Quite sure many will be doing the same after #CambridgeAnalyticaUncovered.” Many MPs praised journalists at Channel 4 News and the Observer for their work in exposing how Cambridge Analytica had both harvested and stored personal data from Facebook users. “If you care at all about democracy & believe elections should be open & not corrupted please watch this; the story Cambridge Analytica didn’t want you to see,” wrote Labour’s Yvette Cooper, commending journalists for their investigative work.  

[w634]  Facebook 'outraged' over misuse of data               Facebook 'outraged' after being 'deceived' over misuse of data     Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg is accused of misleading a UK parliamentary inquiry Facebook has said the company was "outraged" after being "deceived" over the misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica.  A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher.  "The entire company is outraged, we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens," the statement said.  It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams "are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue."  Tonight's statement came after the British parliamentary inquiry into fake news called on Mr Zuckerberg to give evidence, accusing the company of "misleading" the committee in a previous hearing. The chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee, Damian Collins, tweeted a picture of his letter to Mr Zuckerberg, in which he said the tech giant's officials had "consistently understated" the risk of companies acquiring and holding users' private data. I have today written to @facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg calling on him to give oral evidence to @CommonsCMS following recent reports in @guardian and @nytimes pic.twitter.com/y5xnGHzaNI — Damian Collins (@DamianCollins) March 20, 2018 Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain will consider any suggestions to give the body in charge of upholding data privacy laws more powers. "If proposals are put forward for further powers, we can consider them as the bill passes through parliament," her spokesman told reporters, referring to data protection legislation already passing through parliament. Mr Zuckerberg has also been invited to speak about data protection at the European Parliament. Britain is investigating whether Facebook did enough to protect data after a whistleblower said the London-based political consultancy hired by Donald Trump improperly accessed information on 50 million Facebook users to sway public opinion. The board of Cambridge Analytica, which is at the centre of the trans-Atlantic probe,  has suspended chief executive Alexander Nix with immediate effect. Read More: What is Cambridge Analytica?   US and European politicians have demanded an explanation of how the consulting firm gained access to the data. An investigation by Facebook at CA's London office was halted in order to allow the UK Information Commissioner's Office to pursue its inquiry. Further claims about CA included allegations the company offered to entrap politicians and used ex-spies to dig for dirt on potential targets. But the firm's boss, Alexander Nix, claimed CA was the target of media attacks because of its role in Mr Trump's successful election campaign. 

[w635]   How to protect your Facebook privacy – or delete yourself completely 

[w636] 

[w637] 

[w638] 

[w639]   What’s going on with Facebook and Cambridge Analytica? 

[w640] CEO of Cambridge Analytica suspended with immediate effect        CEO of Cambridge Analytica suspended with immediate effect    Cambridge Analytica released a statement on Tuesday evening. Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, has been suspended by the company with immediate effect. The board of the company confirmed the decision to suspend Nix on Tuesday in the wake of revelations about the conduct of Nix and some of his Cambridge Analytica colleagues released by Channel 4 News on Monday. The Board has suspended CEO Alexander Nix pending a full independent investigation. https://t.co/HV9Mb5eXIR — Cambridge Analytica (@CamAnalytica) March 20, 2018 In footage aired on Channel 4, high-profile figures from Cambridge Analytica were filmed discussing the use of bribes, ex-spies, fake IDs and sex workers to influence elections. Nix himself was filmed detailing examples of his company's ability to discredit political rivals via smear campaigns, including arranging encounters with sex workers and staging scenarios in which bribery could be caught on camera. Advertisement Nix was also heard to say that he had met Donald Trump “many times”, while claims were made that the company played a highly influential role in the 2016 US Presidential election, in which Trump defeated Hillary Clinton.  A self-driving Uber car has hit and killed a pedestrian in America READ MORE A statement from Cambridge Analytica on Tuesday read: “The Board of Cambridge Analytica has announced today that it has suspended CEO Alexander Nix with immediate effect, pending a full, independent investigation. “In the view of the Board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation. “We have asked Dr. Alexander Tayler to serve as acting CEO while an independent investigation is launched to review those comments and allegations. “We have asked Julian Malins QC to lead this investigation, the findings of which the Board will share publicly in due course. “The Board will be monitoring the situation closely, working closely with Dr. Tayler, to ensure that Cambridge Analytica, in all of its operations, represents the firm’s values and delivers the highest-quality service to its clients.” 

[w641]  Cambridge Analytica Suspends CEO Alexander Nix News  The firm says he's suspended immediately pending a full independent investigation Facebook row tech firm Cambridge Analytica has suspended its CEO Alexander Nix in the wake of a series of allegations. Facebook is currently facing investigations by authorities in the EU, UK and the US over a reported data breach that impacted more than 50 million people. Data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica was hired by Donald Trump's campaign team. It's is accused of using millions of Facebook profiles without authorisation to predict and influence the US election. The company's board says it has suspended Mr Nix pending a full independent investigation of his actions. The suspension is effective immediately, according to the company's website. Cambridge Analytica statement | Image: ca-commercial.com Comments Mr Nix made to an undercover reporter for Britain's Channel 4 News and other allegations of wrongdoing were cited as reasons for the action by the board. In secretly recorded conversations, Mr Nix claimed he had met Trump "many times", according to The Guardian. "We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy," Mr Nix told undercover reporters. The paper also reports that senior managers appeared to suggest that in their work for American clients there was planned division of work between official campaigns and unaffiliated "political action groups". If true, this could be considered coordination, which is not allowed under US election law. Mr Nix also was filmed boasting about using "Ukrainian girls" who are "very beautiful" to entrap the political opponents of clients. Meanwhile, Facebook's founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg has been invited by the European Parliament to answer questions regarding the growing scandal about user data. We’ve invited Mark Zuckerberg to the European Parliament. Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy. 

[w642]   Concerned by Cambridge Analytica revelations? Here's a simple guide to keeping your Facebook data more private Tuesday, March 20, 2018 - 06:09 PM As British firm Cambridge Analytica is accused of misusing data gleaned from Facebook users, people are questioning how they will continue to use the social media site. Here’s how to find out just what sort of information you share via apps on Facebook and ultimately how to delete your account. What sort of data does Facebook have on its users and what does it share? Every interaction on Facebook generates data. Users volunteer some information in their profile like their hometown and birthday. Other data could be about interests gleaned from publicly liking content – be that dogs and walking or sci-fi films and beauty bloggers. Facebook also knows where you log on to its site from, the device you use, and which ads you click on. Apps which work on the site, like mini games and personality quizzes, request a user’s permission to take this information – a person’s data. There are rules about what third parties can do with it. Facebook says data collected via a quiz app called ThisIsYourDigitalLife, billed as a personality predictor, was passed to Cambridge Analytica in violation of its terms. Where can I find details about what apps I’ve given access to? Visit www.facebook.com/settings or, on the desktop site, settings is located on the drop-down menu on the right-hand side of the blue header bar. Click on the apps tab on the left-hand side of the screen to see all the apps you’ve okayed. (PA) Users can see what info is shared with any app, and there are options to delete, limit the information each app can access and remove info collected by the app. Deleting an app may still allow the developer to retain some of a user’s personal information. How do my friends impact on apps? (ViewApart/Getty Images) In “Apps Others Use”, Facebook sets out how apps which other people use can read your data. This feature revolves around the social part of Facebook – it’s the tech which means you might be flagged as a fellow reader of a certain book, a brand devotee, or someone who also plays a game. (PA) Click edit and 13 categories are listed, including bio, timeline posts and online status. Any combination can be toggled on and off. What is Facebook Platform? (PA) If you want to go a step further you can turn off Platform – this is the system which among other things allows you to comment on or log into other websites using your Facebook details. By turning it off, you lose some functionality but it means your information is not automatically shared as you surf the web. How to see your Facebook data (PA) In the general section of the settings is an option “download a copy of your Facebook data”. Click on it and Facebook will email you when it’s ready to download. Facebook says most of this data is already available in your account and activity log, but it also includes information on ads you have clicked on and the IP addresses you’ve used. It will also reveal email addresses previously associated with your account, topics of ads which may be targeted to you and the metadata contained in photos uploaded to Facebook. How do I deactivate or delete my account? (PA) Facebook talks people through both deactivating and deleting their account in Settings > General > Manage Your Account. Deactivating allows you to log back in in the future and have your Facebook profile completely restored. While deactive, people won’t be able to search for you or see your page, but the info is retained. To permanently delete your Facebook account, visit www.facebook.com/help/delete_account to start the process. It may take up to 90 days to delete all the things you’ve posted, says Facebook.  KEYWORDS Sci-Tech UK Politics Cambridge Delete UK Cambridge Analytica News Daily Headlines Receive our lunchtime briefing straight to your inbox Related Articles Facebook will not pay compensation for Cambridge Analytica case UK's Information Commissioner finds in favour of professor over Cambridge Analytica personal data fight Bosses of collapsed Cambridge Analytica could still face action – ICO Latest: Mark Zuckerberg threatened with formal summons in fake news inquiry in the UK 


[w643]  All you need to know about Cambridge Analytica and Facebook What's going on with your Facebook data and how did we get here?  British research firm Cambridge Analytica has hit the headlines this week after an undercover investigation by Channel 4 News , alongside evidence given to the press by a whistleblower who had ties with the organisation, uncovered some rather unsavoury working practices. There’s a lot to digest, especially if you’re not familiar with social networks and how digital data is used for advertising and campaigning. If that’s the case, we’ve put together this quick-fire guide that should get you up to speed on the issue that could have profound implications for how we protect our digital data going forward. What is Cambridge Analytica? 38286773901_5bc03e55f1_z Cambridge Analytica CEO Nix. Image: Web Summit How does Facebook come into this? DID YOU KNOW… There are currently around 1,450 Big Issue sellers working hard on the streets each week. What happens next? 7985186041_b08232360d_z Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg. 


[w644] WATCH: Channel 4's Cambridge Analytica documentary is an eye-opening look at the business of election influencing  Channel 4's Cambridge Analytica documentary is an eye-opening look at the business of election influencing    "An online information war where unseen hands harvest your personal data, tapping into your hopes and fears for the greatest political yield." An undercover investigation by Channel 4 News has accused British data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica of secretly campaigning in elections across the world. In a documentary aired on Channel 4 on Monday night, high-profile figures from Cambridge Analytica were filmed discussing the use of bribes, ex-spies, fake IDs and sex workers to influence elections. An undercover reporter posed as a Sri Lankan businessman with the story that he wished to influence a local election. Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix was apparently filmed detailing examples of his company's ability to discredit political rivals via smear campaigns, including arranging encounters with sex workers and staging scenarios in which bribery could be caught on camera. In one exchange, Managing Director of CA Political Global Mark Turnbull outlines how data can be used to influence the public: "We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet, and then, and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again… like a remote control," he said. "It has to happen without anyone thinking, ‘that’s propaganda’, because the moment you think ‘that’s propaganda’, the next question is, ‘Who’s put that out?’" You can watch the documentary in full below. Advertisement  Mary Lou McDonald's criticism of the Iona Institute is being widely shared and praised READ MORE Clip via Channel 4 News The Channel 4 doc arrives just days after an Observer exposé revealed that 50 million Facebook profiles were harvested for Cambridge Analytica. For their part, Cambridge Analytica has hit back at Channel 4 since the airing of the documentary. In a statement issued to CNN on Monday night, the company said that the production was "edited and scripted to grossly misrepresent the nature of those conversations and how the company conducts its business." Elsewhere, an official  press release  strongly rejects the allegations made by the documentary. “In playing along with this line of conversation, and partly to spare our ‘client’ from embarrassment, we entertained a series of ludicrous hypothetical scenarios," said Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix. "I am aware how this looks, but it is simply not the case. I must emphatically state that Cambridge Analytica does not condone or engage in entrapment, bribes or so-called ‘honeytraps’, and nor does it use untrue material for any purpose. “I deeply regret my role in the meeting and I have already apologised to staff. I should have recognised where the prospective client was taking our conversations and ended the relationship sooner.” 

[w645] 

[w646] Malaysia says never hired British data firm at center of scrutiny  The Malaysian government and the ruling party on Tuesday denied they had ever hired Cambridge Analytica, the British data analytics firm accused of improperly harvesting personal data from millions of Facebook users. The New York Times and the British Observer reported that Cambridge Analytica had acquired private data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to support Donald Trump's 2016 presidential election campaign. In a secretly recorded video by Britain's Channel 4 News, Cambridge Analytica officials were also recorded saying they have used a web of shell companies to disguise their activities in elections in Malaysia, Mexico and Brazil, among various countries where they have worked to sway election outcomes. "Contrary to media reports, neither Cambridge Analytica nor its parent company SCL Group have ever – now or in the past – been contracted, employed or paid in any way by Barisan Nasional, the Prime Minister's Office or any part of the Government of Malaysia," the office of Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak said on Tuesday. Barisan Nasional (BN) is Malaysia's ruling coalition. SCL and Cambridge Analytica did not respond to requests by Reuters for comment regarding their work in Malaysia. Cambridge Analytica had earlier denied all the media claims and said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data-protection rules. Malaysia is gearing up for national elections that have to be called by August, with sources telling Reuters that polls may be held as early as April. Najib's coalition is widely expected to retain power. Najib's office also said SCL has informed the government that "Cambridge Analytica's advice on the 2013 general election was provided personally to Mukhriz Mahathir," who was then with the ruling coalition but is now part of the opposition. "The SCL representative also confirmed that he reported directly to Mukhriz Mahathir, not BN or the government," Najib's office said. Mukhriz told Reuters that the statement by PMO was misleading. "I categorically deny any contact with Cambridge Analytica at any time," he said. Earlier in the day, he denied receiving any analysis, data or advice from the firm. Mukhriz is the son of the former Malaysian premier Mahathir Mohamad, who is now the opposition's prime ministerial candidate. According to Cambridge Analytica's website, the firm "supported Barisan Nasional in Kedah state with a targeted messaging campaign highlighting their school improvements since 2008." It also notes how BN wrested power back from the opposition in the 2013 elections. Mukhriz was appointed chief minister of Kedah after the 2013 win, but he was sacked by the ruling party in 2016 after being critical of Najib in a corruption scandal. 

[w648]


[w740]  	 Stock mostly higher but Facebook sinks again 


[w743]  BRIEFS - Shares in Facebook fell by 6.7% last night, wiping $37 billion off the company's value, as an investigation by Channel 4 News and The Guardian sparked concerns about the data it holds on users. The investigation centres around data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, which is alleged to have used of the personal information of millions of Facebook users as part of its election campaigns. Facebook has suspended the firm due to what says was a breach of its terms and conditions, however it is now facing questions about the data it holds on its users. 

[w745]  Privacy issues emerge as big business risk for Facebook              Privacy issues emerge as major business risk for Facebook     Shares in Facebook fell last night by almost 7%, their biggest drop since 2014 Facebook faces substantial business risks from new European Union privacy rules set to take effect in May.  This looming reality came into stark focus over the weekend with revelations that a controversial political consulting firm had improperly obtained personal data on 50 million Facebook users .  Privacy experts said the disclosure that a researcher had sold Facebook data collected via a personality quiz to the consulting firm Cambridge Analytica is a prime example of the kinds of practices that the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is supposed to prevent or punish.  The danger faced by Facebook going forward is two-fold - complying with the rules means letting European users opt out of the highly targeted online ads that have made Facebook a money machine.  But violating GDPR mandates could subject the California company to fines of up to 4% of annual revenues.  Had the Cambridge Analytica incident happened after GDPR becomes law on May 25, it "would have cost Facebook 4% of their global revenue", Austrian privacy campaigner and Facebook critic Max Schrems said. Because a UK company was involved and because at least some of the people whose data was misused were almost certainly European, GDPR would have applied.  Shares in Facebook fell last night by almost 7%, their biggest drop since 2014, wiping nearly $40 billion off the value of the firm founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg. The shares fell further in trade today. Schrems first raised concerns in 2011 about how easy it would be for third-party apps to harvest data from the unwitting friends of Facebook users.  Facebook said it has tightened its controls on such practices since it discovered the alleged abuses by Cambridge Analytica in 2015.  According to whistleblower Christopher Wylie, who formerly worked with Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm used the data to help then-US presidential candidate Donald Trump to predict and influence choices at the ballot box.  "The fact of the matter is that Facebook lost control of the data and wasn't adequately monitoring what third-parties were doing," said Scott Vernick, a partner and an expert in privacy and data security at the Philadelphia law firm Fox Rothschild.  Vernick said the maximum GDPR fine could come into play in an incident like this because of the number of users affected and what appears to have been inadequate monitoring of third-party data practices.  Facebook said it changed its policies in 2014 to "to give much less data, especially about friends," Facebook Vice President Andrew Bosworth said in a Facebook post yesterday.  "We conduct a robust review to identify potential policyviolations and to assess whether the app has a legitimate usefor the data," the company said.  "We actually reject a significant number of apps through this process," it added.  Compliance with GDPR rules could cost Facebook a significant amount of money.  Deutsche Bank analysts in January estimated that Facebook's overall revenue could be lowered by 4% in a scenario in which 30% of EU users opt out of targeted ads, reducing the effectiveness and likely price of ads shown by 50%.  The EU represents 24% of Facebook's ad revenue, so multiplying those figures, the bank said the regulations could have a 4% impact on overall Facebook revenue.  "If this regulatory approach spreads to other countries or if GDPR ever becomes more onerous over the medium or long term, it would pose more risk," Deutsche Bank warned.  The firestorm over Cambridge Analytica has prompted a furious response from lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic, raising the prospect of just such an expansion of privacy protections. A December 2017 survey found that only 21% of European consumers know what GDPR is.  But after the regulation was explained, 82% of respondents said they plan to exercise their new rights, according to the survey of 7,000 Europeans conducted by US-based Pegasystems, which makes sales and marketing software.  PageFair, an Irish startup that helps websites deliver non-targeted ads and avoid ad-blocking, estimates that only 3% of European social media users will opt-in to targeted ads. This is a potentially "devastating" blow for Facebook and other platforms, said Johnny Ryan, PageFair's head of ecosystem.  GDPR gives users the right to access their data, delete it or transfer it to competing companies.  Social networks will also need to regain Europeans' consent every time they want to use their data in new ways, including for targeted advertising.  Politicians had social networks in mind when drafting GDPR, said Helen Dixon, Ireland's Data Protection Commissioner, which is the lead GDPR regulator for numerous tech companies including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.  "There was very big consideration of these newer types ofplatforms," she told Reuters.  Tough European rules stand in sharp contrast to the lack of privacy regulation in the US and many other countries, raising the prospect that Facebook will begin to look much different from one country to the next. For example, the social media giant in 2017 released new artificial intelligence features that detect when a user is at risk of suicide or when someone else uploads a picture of their face.  The company did not make those features available in Europe. Facebook did not specify a reason.  But heightened scrutiny in Europe over such practices with GDPR looming may have been a factor.  Another challenge for social networks are GDPR provisions mandating how companies must obtain permissions.  The regulation demands that requests for consent be presented "in an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language."  In other words, the days of extensive "terms of service" agreements written in small text will no longer pass muster in Europe, numerous data privacy lawyers told Reuters.  In practice, social network users may find themselves seeing more "permissions screens" and being asked to check boxes everytime a social network rolls out a new feature.  That could depress usage, Facebook's chief financial officer David Wehner said at an investor conference last month.  "Whenever you walk people through permission screens, there's some potential that people decide they're not going to use the product," Wehner said. "We don't think it will be big, but there could be some implication there."


[w749]  	 What is Cambridge Analytica? The company linked to Trump and Brexit explained   


[w756] Facebook investigating whether Canadians caught up in data harvesting scheme   


[w757]    Thinking of breaking up with Facebook? It's harder than it looks  				 Facebook’s latest privacy scandal, involving Trump campaign consultants who allegedly stole data on tens of millions of users in order to influence elections, has some people reconsidering their relationship status with the social network. There’s just one problem: There isn’t much of anywhere else to go. Facebook has weathered many such blow-ups before and is used to apologizing and moving on. But the stakes are bigger this time. Regulatory authorities are starting to focus on the data misappropriation, triggering a 9 per cent decline in Facebook’s normally high-flying stock since Monday. Some of that reflects fear that changes in Facebook’s business will hurt profits or that advertisers and users will sour on the social network. The furor over Cambridge Analytica, the data mining firm accused of stealing Facebook data, follows a bad year in which Facebook acknowledged helping spread fake news and propaganda from Russian agents. It also comes less than three months after CEO Mark Zuckerberg told the world that he would devote the year to fixing Facebook. Instead, things seem to be getting worse. “It’s more serious economically, politically, financially and will require a more robust response in order to regain users’ trust,” said Steve Jones, a professor of communications at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Yet leaving Facebook, like ending a long marriage, isn’t remotely simple. Starting with the little things. Arvind Rajan, a tech executive from San Francisco who deactivated his account on Monday, suddenly discovered he needs to create new usernames and passwords for a variety of apps and websites. That’s because he previously logged in with his Facebook ID. It’s a pain, he said, “but not the end of the world.” And because he is bothered by Facebook’s “ham-handed” response to recent problems, the inconvenience is worth it. For other users looking to leave, it can feel as if there are no real alternatives. Twitter? Too flighty, too public. Instagram? Whoops, owned by Facebook. Snapchat? Please, unless you’re under 25 — in which case you’re probably not on Facebook to begin with. Facebook connects 2.2 billion users and a host of communities that have sprung up on its network. No other company can match the breadth or depth of these connections — thanks in part to Facebook’s proclivity for squashing or swallowing up its competition. Cambridge Analytica controversy: How Facebook likes could profile voters for manipulation Canadian at centre of Facebook data scandal cut political teeth with Liberals But it is precisely in Facebook’s interest to make users feel Facebook is the only place to connect with others. Where else will grandmothers see photos of their far-flung grandkids? How will new mothers connect to other parents also up at 4 a.m. with a newborn? “My only hesitation is that there are hundreds of pictures posted over 13 years of my life that I do not want to lose access to. If there was a way to recover these photos, I would deactivate immediately,” Daniel Schwartz, who lives in Atlanta, said in an email. People eager to delete their profiles may find unexpected problems that point to how integral Facebook is to many activities, said Ifeoma Ajunwa, a professor of organizational behaviour at Cornell University. “It is getting more and more difficult for people to delete Facebook, since it’s not just as a social media platform but also almost like a meeting square,” she said. Parents could soon realize that their child’s soccer schedule with games and pickup times is only on a Facebook page, for example. Many businesses also schedule meetings via Facebook. “It’s more and more difficult for people to feel plugged in if you’re not on Facebook,” Ajunwa said. Not surprisingly, Facebook doesn’t make it easy to leave. To permanently delete your account, you need to make a request to the company. The process can take several days, and if you log in during this time, your request will be cancelled. It can take up to 90 days to delete everything. There’s a less permanent way to leave, deactivation, which hides your profile from everyone but lets you return if you change your mind. Lili Orozco, a 28-year-old office manager for her family’s heating and cooling company in Watkinsville, Georgia, deleted her account in December. She was upset that every new app she downloaded would ask for her Facebook contacts. And while she liked staying in touch with people, she was irritated by the conspiracy stories her high school friends would share. “Falsehoods spread faster on Facebook than the truth does,” she said. She now gets her news from Twitter and shares pictures with friends through Instagram. 


[w758] A growing list of reasons to unfriend Facebook 

[w759] Let’s not trust Facebook to protect our privacy and our democracy 


[w760]        Spy agencies to explore Facebook data scandal as Canada hints at tougher laws                            Prime Minister Justin Trudeau addresses the audience during the Facebook launching of an artificial intelligence research lab Friday, September 15, 2017 in Montreal. The Trudeau government is facing pressure to do more to protect the online privacy of Canadians as policy-makers around the world grapple with the implications of using data collected by Facebook and other social-media companies for political purposes. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Paul Chiasson                      OTTAWA - The Trudeau government is turning to its spy agency and high-tech cybersleuths to ensure the privacy rights of Canadians are being protected as revelations swirl about Facebook data being exploited for political gain. And Scott Brison, the acting minister for democratic institutions, also said Tuesday he would be open to strengthening federal privacy laws even further to better defend those who share their information online. Federal privacy commissioner Daniel Therrien, meanwhile, formally launched an investigation to determine whether any personal information of Canadians was affected by the alleged unauthorized access to Facebook user profiles. Brison was responding to revelations by Canadian data expert Christopher Wylie, who is accusing data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica of improperly obtaining private data from Facebook users in order to help advance Donald Trump's campaign efforts ahead of the U.S. election. Policy-makers around the world are grappling with the implications following media reports that data collected by Facebook and other social-media companies is being harvested and used to influence elections. Recent reports by The New York Times and The Observer of London say Trump's 2016 campaign hired Cambridge Analytica, which crunched private information it inappropriately collected from the Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users. Wylie, who worked for the federal Liberals about a decade ago, has said in media interviews that the company used the information to profile voters and has alleged the company took fake news to the next level. The company denies any wrongdoing. Facebook's alleged data seepage has created worries in Canada, where the country's largest provinces are set to go to the polls this year and a federal election sits on the horizon for 2019. "We've reached out as a department of democratic institutions to (the Communications Security Establishment) to ask them to do an analysis of these recent events and to consider other ways that we can further strengthen the protection of our democratic institutions," Brison said. "Social media platforms have a responsibility to protect the privacy and personal data of citizens, and to protect the integrity of our electoral system where they operate." Brison said he planned to meet with CSE and also the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), the national domestic spy service, to consider the global environment and assess threats to the electoral system and the protection of personal information. And while he said Canada already has strong privacy laws, Brison said he'd be open to making further changes if necessary. The government has also contacted Facebook to find out if any Canadians were among those affected by the data breach and to call on the company to explain how it will ensure this kind of event doesn't happen again, said a spokeswoman for Brison. New Democrat MP Charlie Angus said Monday that if information giants like Facebook have the potential to distort the outcome of elections, they need to be held to account. He added that Facebook has a legal international responsibility to protect users' information from bad actors looking to use it for nefarious purposes. "Facebook seems to have a very cavalier attitude towards the protection of private information," Angus said. "What's come out of the allegations against Cambridge Analytica was the ability to subvert Facebook to use the stories, the chats that people have, to create the perfect propaganda machine." Angus said the time has come for the creation of a global framework to deal with social-media companies that hold vast stores of personal information —and he wants Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to raise the issue when Canada hosts the G7 summit in June. During question period Tuesday, Trudeau said he intends to do that and, indeed, has already had many discussions in the past with his G7 counterparts about privacy issues and democratic concerns related to social-media companies. The international uproar triggered earlier this week by Wylie had already motivated privacy watchdog Therrien to reach out to Facebook to determine whether the personal information of Canadians was affected and to offer to assist an investigation into the matter already launched by the U.K. information commissioner's office On Tuesday, Therrien said he's opened a formal investigation, which will focus on whether Canadians were affected and whether Facebook has complied with Canada's federal private sector privacy law — the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act which requires meaningful, informed consent for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In a statement, Therrien noted that political parties are not covered by privacy laws even though they collect large amounts of highly personal information about citizens, such as details on how they vote, their age, religious and cultural backgrounds. The laws are "in urgent need of reform," he said, reiterating his oft-repeated call for stronger privacy protection. Political parties in Canada have also used tools offered by Facebook to target advertisements to voters, however there's no evidence of anything similar to the allegations around Cambridge Analytica. Facebook has denied the data collection was a breach because people knowingly provided their information. The company has said a University of Cambridge psychology professor accessed the information after he requested it from users who gave their consent when they chose to sign up for his test via a Facebook app. On Monday, Facebook said it hired a digital forensics firm to conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica to determine if the Facebook data the company collected still exists or if it's been destroyed. Cambridge Analytica agreed to give the auditor complete access to its servers and systems, Facebook said. Newspaper reports have said Facebook first learned of the breach more than two years ago, but didn't disclose it until now. Cambridge Analytica has "strongly denied" the allegations that it had improperly obtained Facebook data. It has also denied that the Facebook data was used by the Trump campaign. The company has also insisted Wylie was a contractor, not a founder, as he has claimed. Wylie, a 28-year-old from British Columbia, left the firm in 2014. Trump's campaign has denied using the Cambridge Analytica's data, saying it relied on the Republican National Committee for its information.  


[w761]   Mozilla's opt-out Firefox DNS privacy test sparks, er, privacy outcry Facebook stockholders tell Zuck to reform voting rules as data scandal branded 'human rights violation'     Mozilla's plan to test a more secure method for resolving internet domain names – known as Trusted Recursive Resolver (TRR) via DNS over HTTPs (DoH) – in Firefox Nightly builds has met with objections from its user community due to privacy concerns. The browser maker's intentions appear to be beneficial for Firefox users. As Patrick McManus, one of the Mozilla software engineers conducting the test, explains in a note posted this week to one of the company's developer forums, DoH can make DNS communication more secure. "Access to global DNS data is commonly manipulated and can easily be blocked and/or collected," said McManus. "DNS services are also sometimes poorly provisioned creating performance problems. We posit that integrity and confidentiality protected access to well provisioned larger caches will help our users. In a nutshell, that's what DoH does." DNS queries and responses have traditionally been sent over UDP or TCP without encryption, making them vulnerable to interception and manipulation. There's an extension to DNS called DNSSEC designed to authenticate DNS interaction, to prevent spoofing, but it does nothing to protect the privacy of DNS queries or responses. TRR provides a way to select a trusted DNS resolver to handle requests, rather than an insecure plaintext resolver, via a more secure DNS-over-HTTPS server. McManus and another Mozilla engineer, Daniel Stenberg, want to understand how these protocols affect network performance, in the hope of eventually supporting them more broadly. But their plan is to conduct their seven-day test on an opt-out basis among half of the tens of thousands of people estimated to be running experimental Firefox Nightly builds, with the other half serving as the experiment's control group. The test involves sending all DNS lookups submitted by test participants to third-party security provider Cloudflare, and that makes some Firefox users uncomfortable. "Even if it is only Mozilla's nightly browser and for a short period of time I'm a bit disturbed about the possibility of an opt-out only 'send all visited hostnames to a third party US company' study," New Zealand-based developer Chris Double said via Twitter on Monday Henri Sivonen, a Mozilla software developer based in Helsinki, Finland, echoed this concern and suggested the experiment should not proceed in its proposed form. "Sending information about what is browsed to an off-path party will erode trust in Mozilla due to people getting upset about privacy-sensitive information ... getting sent to an off-path party without explicit consent," Sivonen wrote on Monday in a developer forum post. There's something endearingly quaint about fretting over a few thousand people's DNS queries being visible to a third-party like Cloudflare at a time when people are up in arms about Facebook's dispersal of data on 50 million users to data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica . The dustup harkens back to a time when one-pixel images used for tracking people online were referred to as " web bugs ," before the online ad industry succeeded in rebranding such things with the more positive term "web beacon." In a forum post , Mozilla senior technical writer Eric Shepherd acknowledges that the timing of the experiment is problematic in light of current events. "I definitely see some easy ways this could be problematic from a public relations perspective given things going on in the industry these days and some of our own mistakes the in the past," he said. "It's definitely worth taking a little while to consider the implications before throwing the switch." To fix the test, some members of the Mozilla community are calling for the tech trial to be opt-in, common in Europe but generally avoided and lobbied against in the US when possible (because few people bother to opt-in when presented with that choice). In a statement emailed to The Register , Selena Deckelmann, senior director of engineering for Firefox, said, "At Mozilla we work in the open. We are soliciting feedback on a study that is not yet underway about DNS over HTTPS. We are currently exploring what the right testing approach should be with users who have opted to participate by using Firefox Nightly." "We feel this technology could provide important protections against spying on people’s web browsing," said Deckelmann. "The way the web currently works, DNS traffic is unencrypted and shared with multiple parties, making data vulnerable to capture. Our proposed study would explore if there is an alternate and potentially more secure way to manage DNS traffic by first encrypting it." We now return you to your regular social media surveillance and subjugation. 


[w762]  By pushing the boundaries of acceptability, the tech giants have brought on their own nemesis     By pushing the boundaries of acceptability, the tech giants have brought on their own nemesis         


[w763]  


[w764]  Gains stateside in the previous session came after U.S. stocks pulled back at the beginning of the week as a fall in Facebook shares dragged on the tech sector. Regulators are looking into whether the social media giant potentially violated a consent decree following reports that data of 50 million Facebook users was accessed by Cambridge Analytica .   


[w765] Facebook whistleblower reveals hundreds of millions of users may have had their data harvested by other companies  Facebook whistleblower reveals hundreds of millions of users may have had their data harvested by other companies Sandy Parakilas, who worked as a Facebook platform operations manager, said a Friends Permission feature left the site with 'zero' control or oversight of user information A FORMER Facebook employee has revealed millions of users may have had their data harvested by third parties as anger over the use of personal info grows. Sandy Parakilas, who worked as a Facebook platform operations manager, said a Friends Permission feature left the site with “zero” control or oversight of user information. https://www.facebook.com/sandyparakilas Sandy Parakilas revealed what he described as 'horrifying' practices at Facebook regarding user data Speaking out about “horrifying” practices, Mr Parakilas told  The Guardian : “Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on.” And when he raised the issue with executives the whistleblower claims he was asked: “Do you really want to see what you’ll find?” He told the newspaper he took that to mean that, “Facebook was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening. “They felt that it was better not to know. I found that utterly shocking and horrifying.” Credit: True Images / Alamy Stock Photo Facebook may have allowed hundreds of millions of users' data to be harvested, the whistleblower said Mr Parakilas is due to give evidence to the Government on Wednesday. Facebook claims that it has changed its policies since 2012 when he left the company and denies any wrongdoing. But his explosive comments come as a former digital adviser to President Obama revealed how the 2012 campaign was able to access extraordinary amounts of personal information through Facebook. PA:Press Association Facebook is already embroiled in controversy over claims 50 million users' data was harvested by British firm Cambridge Analytica Carol Davidsen, the Obama for America (OFA) former director of integration and media analytics, tweeted Facebook was “very candid” that it allowed the Democratic organisation to do certain things because it supported them politically. She wrote: “Facebook was surprised we were able to suck out the whole social graph, but they didn’t stop us once they realised that was what we were doing. "They came to [the] office in the days following election recruiting [and] were very candid that they allowed us to do things they wouldn’t have allowed someone else to do because they were on our side.” Cambridge Analytica boss Alexander Nix was filmed boasting about using bribes, honey traps and Ukranian sex workers to swing elections MOST READ IN WORLD NEWS LOVE SICK LAST WORDS HOUNDING OF THE BICYCLES 'CANCER WAS A GIFT' STREETS OF RAGE FREE TOMMY DEMO A Washington Post report on Tuesday claimed “thousands” of other developers including those behind game FarmVille and Tinder were also able to siphon information about Facebook users. And British firm Cambridge Analytica has been at the centre of a Facebook data breach scandal after being accused of harvesting the data of tens of millions of social media users during the 2016 US election. The UK Information Commissioner is seeking a search warrant to enter the Cambridge Analytica offices following a lack of co-operation. Cambridge Analytica suspended its CEO Alexander Nix after he was filmed telling undercover reporters he could use Ukrainian prostitutes to entrap his clients' rivals. Both Cambridge Analytica and Facebook both deny wrongdoing. 

[w766]  Masters of the digital dark arts      Masters of the digital dark arts      What is Cambridge Analytica (CA)? The British-based data company specialises in research, marketing and other forms of — what critics call — propaganda. It was founded in 2013 and is part of parent company SCL Group. The company’s name was reportedly chosen by its then vice-president Steve Bannon, who later went on to become Donald Trump’s election campaign manager and aide. What is CA accused of doing? There are two main allegations. Firstly, it is said to have used private information collected from 50million Facebook users’ profiles via ‘personality’ quizzes and then used the data to try and influence voters on behalf of its clients. These include the Trump campaign in the 2016 US election and pro-Brexit supporters during the EU referendum. Secondly, secret filming of CA executives by Channel 4 News has led to claims the company may also have used bribery, ‘honey trap’ sex workers and other nefarious tactics to compromise political targets of their customers around the world. What is Facebook accused of doing? It’s claimed Facebook knew as early as 2015 that personal data had been harvested on a massive scale — but failed to alert users and allegedly took only limited steps to do anything about it. Can people be so easily manipulated into voting a certain way? This is a hotly-debated question, but some believe the answer is yes. They say by bombarding the public with messages from social media, individually-targeted adverts, websites and the press, it is possible to shape the way we think and therefore the way we vote. How have these claims emerged? Mainly due to whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, a former CA employee. The 28-year-old came forward and spoke to The Observer and New York Times newspapers. But there have also been inquiries into CA’s activities by authorities in the US and UK, including MPs. There was also a separate investigation by Channel 4 News, which began broadcasting its undercover filming this week after Mr Wylie went public. What do Cambridge Analytica and Facebook say? CA and Facebook both deny any wrongdoing. CA denies the claims and says that, while it was involved in the US election campaign, it had nothing to do with the Brexit referendum.          
[w767] 

[w768]  'Delete Facebook': WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton joins calls for users to leave social media giant  'Delete Facebook': WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton joins calls for users to leave social media giant                    Technology latest   Mark Zuckerberg feels wrath of investors at shareholder meeting  

[w769] #DeleteFacebook: Scores of people vow to shut down accounts after Cambridge Analytica data leak  Facebook  users are leaving the social media platform in droves following revelations that data for 50 million accounts leaked and was used in the campaign to elect Donald Trump. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook began trending worldwide on Tuesday after news broke that consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica  mined users' information for use in the 2016 US presidential campaign. The social media giant has suspended accounts held by Cambridge Analytica and parent firm Strategic Communication Laboratories and vowed to investigate the breach. Cambridge Analytica has denied misusing data. But it has not been enough to prevent a backlash.  How to delete Facebook and download a copy of your data As scores of people claimed on Twitter to be shutting down their accounts, one woman wrote: "It's not me, it's you. Goodbye. #DeleteFacebook" Another person wrote: "Finally deleted my @facebook account. If you're angry about what facebook has done with our data then just #deletefacebook." Britain's information commissioner Elizabeth Denham meanwhile launched her investigation into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, saying she is using all her legal powers. She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme she is pursuing a warrant to search the political consultancy's servers, and that she has meanwhile called on Facebook to drop its own internal audit of the data breach. She says Facebook has agreed.  "Our advice to Facebook is to back away and let us go in and do our work," she said.  Ms Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorised way, adding that the data provisions act requires platforms like Facebook to have strong safeguards against misuse of data.  The Information Commissioner said: "The Data Protection Act in the UK is a strong law, it's getting stronger, but we are looking at whether or not there was sufficient consent for individuals to be able to share their data with the application in the first place." Asked if she had enough powers, Ms Denham said: "I am currently using all the tools in my toolbox, all the powers I have under the law, and my powers are about to get stronger." Chris Wylie, who once worked for Cambridge Analytica, was quoted as saying the company used the data to build psychological profiles so voters could be targeted with ads and stories.  Ms Denham launched her investigation after weekend reports that Cambridge Analytica improperly used information from more than 50 million Facebook accounts. Facebook has suspended the company from the social network.   Facebook share price plunges amid Cambridge Analytica data scandal The data harvesting has also triggered calls for further investigation from the European Union, as well as federal and state officials in the United States.  In a statement, the Information Commissioner's Office said: "On March 7, the Information Commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, issued a Demand for Access to records and data in the hands of Cambridge Analytica. "Cambridge Analytica has not responded to the Commissioner by the deadline provided; therefore, the Information Commissioner is seeking a warrant to obtain information and access to systems and evidence related to her investigation. "On March 19, Facebook announced that it will stand down its search of Cambridge Analytica premises at the Information Commissioner's request. Such a search would potentially compromise a regulatory investigation." Cambridge Analytica has said it deleted the data after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules. On Tuesday its senior staff could be seen entering their office in central London. "We are not alone in using data from social media sites to extract user information," Cambridge Analytica said. "No Facebook data was used by our data science team in the 2016 presidential campaign." 


[w770]  The royal link to Cambridge Analytica​ Queen's cousin: Lady Helen Taylor (Photo by Stuart C. Wilson/Getty Images) Does Cambridge Analytica have a royal connection? Nigel Oakes, who founded the SCL Group which counts the company as an off-shoot, was something of that Eighties curiosity the “yuppie”, running a mobile disco, working for Saatchi & Saatchi and dating the Queen’s cousin, Lady Helen Taylor née Windsor.  Diarists of the era noted that Lady Helen “appalled the Queen when she smuggled boyfriend Nigel Oakes into York House, her parents’ grace and favour home in St James’s Palace”.  Oakes, rather ungallantly, revealed all about their love life to the Sunday Mirror a week after Lady Helen’s wedding to Tim Taylor. 

[w771] Watchdog tells Facebook to back off in scandal of 'stolen' data  Facebook told to withdraw team that was searching offices of Cambridge Analytica Elizabeth Denham, the Information Commissioner, racing to get court warrant to allow swoop  Elizabeth Denham said the watchdog had intervened to ask Facebook to withdraw a team that was searching CA’s offices   Britain’s data watchdog today revealed she told Facebook to “back away” from searching a company suspected of hijacking personal details of 50 million users over fears for the “integrity” of vital evidence. Elizabeth Denham, the Information Commissioner, was racing to get a court warrant to allow her own team to swoop on the offices of Cambridge Analytica in an probe into whether private data was illicitly exploited for political campaigns. The company has refused to give her officials access to its computers where, according to a whistleblower, files of secret Facebook records were held after they were meant to have been destroyed. Ms Denham said the watchdog had intervened to ask Facebook to withdraw a team that was  searching CA’s offices. “By Facebook going in at this point we were concerned about the integrity of our investigation,” Ms Denham told BBC Radio 4’s Today. Channel 4 used an undercover investigation to record Cambridge  ’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, saying that the company could use unorthodox methods to wage successful political campaigns (REUTERS) “We are also looking at Facebook at the same time, so our advice to Facebook was to back away, let us get in there as a regulator and do our work, and they have agreed.” She said: “We are seeking a warrant so that, as the regulator, we can go in and get to the bottom, search the servers, do a data audit.”  Facebook share price plunges amid Cambridge Analytica data scandal Facebook shares were set to fall for a second day running, with predictions that  another £3.5 billion would be wiped off the company’s value. Ms Denham criticised Facebook which yesterday sent its own team of lawyers and analysts, who were granted access by Cambridge Analytica. Facebook is under investigation over whether it secured and safeguarded confidential information belonging to its users. It is alleged that the data was harvested from the site by a firm that invited people to take a free personality test, which unlocked their accounts. The social media company confirmed it had hired forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to investigate and determine whether Cambridge Analytical still had the data. “Auditors from Stroz Friedberg were on site at Cambridge Analytic’s London office this evening,” the company said in a statement late Monday. “At the request of the UK Information Commissioner’s™Office, which has announced it is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation, the Stroz Friedberg auditors stood down.” Cambridge Analytica is being probed for whether it obtained the data and held onto it, amid fears that such data was used to sway the 2016 Brexit referendum. MPs voiced fears that the activities of Cambridge Analytica could have swayed the EU referendum. The company pitched for a contract to send “individual” messages to voters on behalf of Leave.EU. Damian Collins, chair of the Culture Select Committee, which is investigating CA as part of a probe into fake news, said: “We can see that there was intent from bad actors including the Russians to put misinformation out there in the referendum. “We do not know the extent of it but our inquiry hopes to map it out.” Nicky Morgan, chair of the Treasury Select Committee, said she was concerned that voter were sent “misleading” messages in private, where they could not be scrutinised. “There is something very uncomfortable about people thinking they are filling in a fun survey on Facebook and their details being harvested for political campaigning,” she said. “I think it moves away from the spirit of campaigning in this country.” She said she had heard of some voters being bombarded with messages that claimed Turkey was about to join the EU, opening the gates to a wave of migrants. “It clearly was not true but they just kept repeating and repeating it. I would suspect that was the sort of thing that was turned into targeted messages sent to Leave voters.” Britain’s Channel 4 used an undercover investigation to record Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, saying that the company could use unorthodox methods to wage successful political campaigns for clients.  He said the company could “send some girls” around to a rival candidate’s house, suggesting that girls from Ukraine are beautiful and effective in this role.  He also said the company could “offer a large amount of money” to a rival candidate and have the whole exchange recorded so it could be posted on the internet to show that the candidate was corrupt.  Nix told BBC his company was being unfairly targeted: “We see this as a coordinated attack by the media that’s been going on for very, very many months in order to damage the company that had some involvement with the election of Donald Trump.”   He later denied  his comments reflected reality and he was “humouring” the reporter out of politeness. MI5 and MI6 may be called in to assist investigations if needed, a Cabinet minister told MPs in the Commons yesterday.  Culture Secretary Matt Hancock replied “yes” when asked by MP Ben Bradshaw if the security and intelligence services would be co-operating following allegations about Cambridge Analytica played a role in the referendum. Mr Hancock said today: “I would urge Cambridge Analytica to open up their doors and co-operate fully with the ICO investigation.” 


[w772] Cambridge Analytica latest: Facebook share price falls sharply as head of security denies he is leaving company   CA chief Alexander Nix, right, and managing director of CA Political Global Mark Turnbull, left, were filmed in meetings last year   ES News Email  Enter your email address or register with your social account  I would like to receive lunchtime headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email Continue Already have an account? Log in Ad Placements Start Facebook ’s shares have fallen sharply as the company’s head of security was forced to deny he is set to quit over how it handles fake news. Some $37bn was wiped off the social network’s value on Monday night as it came under fire following allegations that data company Cambridge Analytica (CA) harvested personal details from more than 50 million of its users. Further claims about CA included allegations the company offered to entrap politicians and used ex-spies to dig for dirt on potential targets. The company denies the allegations. After the scandal broke, Facebook's Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos said on Twitter that while his role at the firm has changed he is still “fully engaged” with his work there. Reports suggested he was about to leave the firm due to an “internal dispute” over how to handle 'disinformation'. He had previously tweeted: "There are a lot of big problems that the big tech companies need to be better at fixing. "We have collectively been too optimistic about what we build and our impact on the world. Believe it or not, a lot of the people at these companies, from the interns to the CEOs, agree." CA was suspended from Facebook last week after it emerged that data on millions of users had not been destroyed as agreed.  Facebook Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos (REUTERS) Whistleblower Chris Wylie, a former research director at CA, told Channel 4 News a so-called data grab had been carried out on more than 50 million profiles in 2014. The UK data protection body is seeking a warrant to search CA’s offices. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham criticised the firm for being "uncooperative" with her probe as she confirmed the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) would apply for a warrant. Read more Warrant sought to search Cambridge Analytica's computers and servers Cambridge Analytica bosses 'boast of dirty tricks to swing elections' Facebook suspends London firm over alleged mass data harvesting Prime Minister Theresa May's spokesman said: "It is absolutely right that the Information Commissioner is investigating this matter. "We expect Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and all the organisations involved to co-operate fully." It is understood Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg could be hauled in front of MPs to explain his company's part in the scandal. CA's chief executive Alexander Nix has claimed his firm was the target of media attacks because of its role in US President Donald Trump's successful election campaign. An undercover investigation by Channel 4 recorded Mr Nix suggesting ways he could help a potential client.  Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) A reporter posing as a fixer for a wealthy client hoping to get candidates elected in Sri Lanka met with him and other senior figures from CA. Asked about what "deep digging" could be done, Mr Nix told the reporter: "Oh, we do a lot more than that. "I mean deep digging is interesting but you know equally effective can be just to go and speak to the incumbents and to offer them a deal that's too good to be true, and make sure that that's video recorded, you know, these sorts of tactics are very effective instantly having video evidence of corruption, putting it on the internet, these sorts of things."  Mr Nix said the company has 'a long history of working behind the scenes' (Channel 4 News) He said they could "send some girls around to the candidate's house", adding that Ukrainian girls "are very beautiful, I find that works very well", Channel 4 reported. Mr Nix told BBC's Newsnight the Channel 4 sting was "intended to embarrass us". "We see this as a co-ordinated attack by the media that's been going on for very, very many months in order to damage the company that had some involvement with the election of Donald Trump," he said. Alexander Nix: CEO of Cambridge Analytica (REUTERS) Mr Nix said he had a "huge amount of regrets about the fact that we, maybe, undertook this meeting and spoke with a certain amount of hyperbole about some of the things that we do". A Cambridge Analytica spokesman said: “We entirely refute any allegation that Cambridge Analytica or any of its affiliates use entrapment, bribes, or so-called “honey-traps” for any purpose whatsoever.” “Cambridge Analytica does not use untrue material for any purpose.” 

[w773]  Billions wiped off of Facebook's market cap over data mismanagement issues  						  Oh Zuck A data scandal at Facebook in addition to a possible 3% revenue tax by the EU on large techs, saw Facebook shares dump 6.8%, wiping $37 billion off its value in its worst trading day in 4 years. Concerns over data mismanagement at the world’s largest social media firm weighed on sentiment, driving technology stock across the board lower by some 2.5%. inline ad asset fallback content /2590626/LLB_hp_article_462x100_1 Jasper Lawler at LCG Research said: “This is not the first time that Facebook have been caught being lax over their controls; both users and regulators are going to want this to be the last or at least see the firm go to extraordinary lengths to prevent incidences like this happening again. The next few weeks will be crucial as to how Facebook responds to the allegation. Increased regulations have the potential to hit advertising, reducing the principal source of income for the tech giant.” The Dow wiped out its year to date gains, diving 330 points, the S&P; closed 1.4% lower whilst the Nasdaq closed 1.8% lower. All major US indices closed off their lows but that wasn’t sufficient to support trading in Asia -Pacific, which experienced large losses early on. However, it has aided European bourses in heading towards a higher start on the open. Yesterday Prime Minister Theresa May said allegations that Facebook users’ profiles were mined for data used to produce micro-targeted political adverts without their knowledge “are clearly very concerning”. “It is essential that people can have confidence that their personal data will be protected and used in an appropriate way,” the Prime Minister’s spokesman said. “It is absolutely right that the Information Commissioner is investigating this matter. We expect Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and all the organisations involved to cooperate fully.” 

[w774]        The value of Facebook’s shares has fallen because of that big data breach    Investors are scared governments are going to crack down on how tech companies use data      Facebook's under a lot of pressure after it was revealed that a firm with links to Trump's 2016 election campaign had harvested information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles. What it means : The accusation is that the company, Cambridge Analytica, used the data to influence US voters in the election. It's been a huge scandal in both the US and Europe, and politicians have called for a closer examination of what tech firms are doing and how they work. Investors are scared that the revelations will mean greater government involvement – or    – of tech firms, which could hit their profits. When investors buy a share in a company, they're essentially betting its profits will improve and the company will get bigger. That means the shares they've bought will get more valuable. When investors get wind that might not happen, they sell their shares. When investors start selling their shares, they become *even* less valuable. The value of shares in Facebook fell by nearly $40 billion in one day.  


[w775]  Is leaving Facebook the only way to protect your data?   Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal  Allegations that research firm Cambridge Analytica misused the data of 50 million Facebook users have reopened the debate about how information on the social network is shared and with whom. Data is like oil to Facebook - it is what brings advertisers to the platform, who in turn make it money. And there is no question that Facebook has the ability to build detailed and sophisticated profiles on users' likes, dislikes, lifestyles and political leanings. The bigger question becomes - what does it share with others and what can users do to regain control of their information? Want to see what you look like as a Hollywood star? Click here. We've all seen these quizzes - offering to test your IQ, reveal your inner personality, or show you what you'd look like if you were a glamorous actor. It was information from one such Facebook quiz - This is Your Digital Life - that Cambridge Analytica is alleged to have used to harvest the data of millions of people. Many such quizzes come with reassurances that your data is safe. These games and quizzes are designed to tempt users in but they are often just a shop front for mass data collection - and one that Facebook's terms and conditions allow. Privacy advocates Electronic Frontier Foundation said the way these quizzes collected data reflected "how Facebook's terms of service and API were structured at the time". Facebook has changed its terms and conditions to cut down on the information that third parties can collect, specifically stopping them from accessing data about users' friends. It is not yet clear exactly what information the firm got hold of - this is now subject to an investigation by the UK data protection authority, the ICO. What can users do to protect their information? Log in to Facebook and visit the App settings page Click edit button under Apps, Websites and Plugins Disable platform This will mean that you won't be able to use third-party sites on Facebook and if that is is a step too far, there is a way of limiting the personal information accessible by apps while still using them: Log into Facebook's App settings page Unclick every category you don't want the app to access, which includes bio, birthday, family, religious views, if you are online, posts on your timeline, activities and interests There are some others pieces of advice too. "Never click on a 'like' button on a product service page and if you want to play these games and quizzes, don't log in through Facebook but go directly to the site," said Paul Bernal, a lecturer in Information Technology, Intellectual Property and Media Law in the University of East Anglia School of Law. "Using Facebook Login is easy but doing so, grants the app's developer access to a range of information from their Facebook profiles," he added. How else can you protect your Facebook data? There really is only one way to make sure data we create on a daily basis remains entirely private, thinks Dr Bernal. "Leave Facebook." "The incentive Facebook will have to protect people more will only come if people start leaving. Currently it has very little incentive to change," he told the BBC. It seems he is not alone in his call - the hashtag #DeleteFacebook is now trending on Twitter in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. But Dr Bernal acknowledges that it is unlikely many will quit - especially those who see Facebook as "part of the infrastructure of their lives". The less drastic option is deactivation, which stops an account from appearing in search results but gives the user the option to bring it back. It would stop future tracking but means all the information already collected will still be kept. For those that decide deletion is the best option, users can head to the delete my account page , which explains that once gone, information cannot be retrieved. The page is not easy to find on the site and requires quite a few steps: From the top right of the blue bar, click the downward arrow Select settings Click General Click Manage Account Click Request Deletion In the pop-up box, which is aimed at people who want to delete their account in the event of their death, click Learn More Scroll down to the section headed Deleting Your Account and click on the link Facebook advises users who delete their account to download a copy of their information before they delete it. They also warn users that the process can take up to 90 days, during which time the information is inaccessible to others using the platform. Can you find out what data on you is stored? Under current data protection rules, users can make a Subject Access Request to individual firms to find out how much information they have on them. When Austrian privacy advocate Max Schrems made such a request to Facebook in 2011, he was given a CD with 1,200 files stored on it. He found that the social network kept records of all the IP addresses of machines he used to access the site, a full history of messages and chats, his location and even items that he thought he had deleted, such as messages, status updates and wall posts. But in a world where Facebook information is shared more widely with third parties, making such a request gets harder. As Dr Bernal says: "How do you ask for your data when you don't know who to ask?" That is likely to change this summer with the introduction of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which aims to make it far easier for users to take back control of their data. The threat of big fines for firms that do not comply with such requests could make it more likely that they will share this information, which must be given to consumers "in a clear and readable form". How long is data kept? Data protection laws in Europe suggest that firms should only keep user data "as long as necessary" but the interpretation of this can be very flexible. In Facebook's case, this means that as long as the person posting something does not delete it, it will remain online indefinitely. Can you delete historic data? Users can delete their accounts, which in theory will "kill" all their past posts but Facebook encourages those who wish to take a break from the social network simply to deactivate them, in case they wish to return. And it must be remembered that a lot of information about you will remain on the platform, from the posts of your friends. One of the biggest changes of GDPR will be the right for people to be forgotten and, under these changes it should, in theory, be much easier to wipe your social network or other online history from existence. 

[w776]       The 2017 election spend shows our fear of the Cambridge Analytica saga can easily be overstated  The 2017 election spend shows our fear of the Cambridge Analytica saga can easily be overstated Facebook Ultimately, you can’t sell a duff product    As the fallout from the Cambridge Analytica revelations  have continued apace, people have been up in arms that our very democratic agency was being stolen from us by mysteriously dark forces aware of every aspect of our psychological profiles. In the age of targeted Facebook advertising, is the very notion of democracy an illusion? No, no it’s not, and the proof also surfaced at the same time as the Cambridge Analytica revelations, albeit with considerably less of a deafening clatter. On Monday, the Electoral Commission published spending from every UK party that spent more than £250,000 campaigning in last year’s general election, and it’s pretty clear that throwing money at Facebook doesn’t get you over the line. In total, £3,177,296.68 was spent on Facebook by eight parties. Of that, £2,118,045.95 was from the Conservative Party, £577,542.19 was from Labour, and £412,329.31 was from the Liberal Democrats. And what did this spending achieve? Let’s have a quick reminder: Conservatives: 317 seats (-13) Labour: 262 seats (+33) Liberal Democrats: 12 seats (+4) The SNP, which was being vaunted as a Facebook success story just two years earlier , spent £43,345.44 and lost 21 of its seats in the process. It’s a similar story with Google spend. The Conservatives spent £562,000, Labour £255,000 and the Liberal Democrats £204,000. You can play with the data yourself here , looking up everything from manifesto costs to the amount each party spent on food (the Liberal Democrats, in particular, were very helpful with their labelling, meaning enterprising sorts have been able to rank their preference of burger bar. ) If you break down each party’s spend, and then divide it by the number of seats they won, some interesting patterns emerge. Labour spent 85p per vote won, while the Conservatives spent £1.36 – each Women’s Equality Party vote cost £79.79, while a Ukip vote was a bargain at just 46p. Of course, this doesn’t translate to seats in parliament, where each Labour seat cost £42,000 to the Tories’ £58,565. Ukip and the Women’s Equality Party won no seats, meaning their spending eventually came to nought, and the Liberal Democrats spent a massive £565,693 on each of their 12 seats. Can’t buy elections? To be clear, there has been no suggestion that any of the parties in the 2017 election consulted Cambridge Analytica, favouring marketing firms and Facebook's own tools to promote their messages. Only it seems that the clever Facebook targeting that worked so well for the Conservatives in 2015 failed to launch just two years later, and they were outmanoeuvred by an opposition that spent just a quarter of their budget on markedly better results. In other words, people won't do what you want just because you can talk to them directly. Cambridge Analytica itself went with such an argument in its defence, saying on Twitter that: “Advertising is not coercive; people are smarter than that.” Looking at the data from last year, it seems they have a point. See related  Facebook hits 2 billion users, as it grapples with what it’s become Cambridge Analytica and Facebook: What happened and did the company shift many votes? Facebook removes boast that it helped the SNP win big in 2015 Total expenditure is not the be all and end all, of course, and there is such a thing as spending money well. Labour-sympathetic Facebook posts on the ivory trade and fox hunting were far more effective at capturing the public mood than videos reminding voters that Jeremy Corbyn made some suspect choices during an era than the majority of his keenest supporters don’t remember. Plus it’s worth reiterating that nobody can know for sure the impact online advertising can have on electorates. Facebook’s own research indicates it can boost (and therefore presumably suppress) voter turnout with a profile badge saying “I voted”, but without two identical countries and electorates to experiment with (plus a third control nation) we really are left guessing whether 73p of Russian spend on the EU referendum is a smoking gun, a damp squib or something in between. It’s possible that without the Facebook spend, the Conservatives would have lost not just their majority, but the entire election, although I doubt it. So is the impact of Cambridge Analytica being overblown? Well, maybe, in the sense that it's in any company's interests to play up its successes. Proving that Cambridge Analytica can make all the difference is all but impossible when trying to unpick cause and effect with an electorate of millions. In another sense, no: effectiveness is beside the point: if Facebook and/or Cambridge Analytica are found to have behaved unethically, then this could have huge repercussions on data protection and the power of internet giants. The data absorption of Facebook, for years a fringe interest, is suddenly front and centre, and people openly questioning the hidden costs of a 'free' platform is a potential watershed moment. As the old mantra goes, if you're not paying for the product, you  are  the product.  That said, however, I think the real take-home here is one of hope: for all our fears that shady operatives can bend the whims of the general public with big data and unscrupulous electioneering, it does look like one cast-iron law of politics can’t be beaten: in a true democracy, you can’t sell a duff product. 

[w777] 

[w778]   Addicts of Facebook and pals are easy prey for manipulative scumbags – thanks to tech giants' 'extraordinary reach'  Facebook stockholders tell Zuck to reform voting rules as data scandal branded 'human rights violation'  Addicts of Facebook and pals are easy prey for manipulative scumbags – thanks to tech giants' 'extraordinary reach' Let me at 'em, growls EU privacy watchdog        Relying on internet giants' goodwill to stop the spread of misinformation online and prevent the manipulation of netizens has failed, Europe's top data protection watchdog has said, adding that regulators now need to take action. Giovanni Buttarelli, the European Data Protection Supervisor, emitted this well-timed opinion yesterday on the effects of, and antidotes to, websites microtargeting people using their intimate information. Rather than show netizens a well-rounded, balanced view of the world, through links, ads and posts in news feeds, social networks and similar sites can feed their addicts a diet of slanted information that taps into their prejudices, fuels their fears, and manipulates their knowledge and feelings to political or commercial ends. All of this is possible using their personal and private information. And that's just not cricket, says Buttarelli. Here's a key quote from the watchdog's opinion statement: A personalised, microtargeted online environment creates ‘filter-bubbles’ where people are exposed to ‘more-of-the-same’ information and encounter fewer opinions, resulting in increased political and ideological polarisation. It increases the pervasiveness and persuasiveness of false stories and conspiracies. Research suggests that the manipulation of people’s newsfeed or search results could influence their voting behaviour. Running to 31 pages, Buttarelli's missive was not thrown together overnight in response to The Observer 's weekend Cambridge Analytica bombshell . It appears to be conveniently timed, with brief references to the latest reports alongside older allegations: many politicians and newspapers seem to have forgotten that CA's data harvesting was first revealed by a Guardian investigation back in 2015. Thanks to the weekend's revelations, though, an EU document that may have otherwise languished on some hidden website will no doubt now have a greater impact, as policymakers are already coming down hard on Facebook . The opinion describes Facebook and its peers as gatekeepers to the internet who have gained disproportionately from the boom in digital advertising that has sucked up every Tom, Dick and Harry's personal information and fed it into all manner of data-crunching machines and algorithms. Buttarelli argued that while the tech giants enjoyed bigger market caps than any other in recorded history, as their business models took off over the past two decades, the effect on individuals has been markedly different. For users, he said, the rise in social platforms has been a double-edged sword, as communities are more connected but increasingly divided by online manipulations and viral outrage. Meanwhile, increased surveillance by governments and companies is having a chilling effect on people's willingness to express themselves freely, to such an extent that it risks damaging the "health of democracy." Although misinformation and manipulation are as old as humankind – particularly in political campaigning – Buttarelli said that rapid digitization had changed the nature of the issue. In the past, political parties would have had limited amounts of data on their constituents; now there's a treasure trove of information to be gleaned from scraping social media sites. This "extraordinary reach" of online platforms – which are bigger than TV or newspapers, and in some countries the sole entry point to the internet – "offer an easy target for people seeking to use the system for malicious ends," he said. The ability to use technology to manipulate people and the information that they see has created the aforementioned filter bubbles, which polarize opinions, and increase the pervasiveness and persuasiveness of false stories. Online manipulation is "a symptom of the opacity and lack of accountability in the digital ecosystem," he said, and will only get worse as more people and things are connected, and artificial intelligence further blurs the lines of accountability. "At the root of the problem is partly the irresponsible, illegal or unethical use of personal information," Buttarelli said. Part of the solution must be data protection – "perhaps a bigger part than expected," he added. But, he continued, no single player or sector can do this alone, and he called for regulators to work across sectors – data protection, consumer rights and anti-trust – while rigorously enforcing those rules. His formal opinion makes clear that his patience with social media companies is wearing thin. BOOM! Cambridge Analytica explodes following extraordinary TV expose The text is littered with references to the underhand – perceived or otherwise – practices employed by all those who have been complicit in generating the state of affairs, which Buttarelli argued risks weakening the "social glue" that, in his view, underpins democracy. These run from dense privacy policies to product design that bakes in addictive qualities, such as auto-playing videos and constant alerts and notifications. At the same time, he pointed the finger at others, saying that existing efforts to tackle fake news have focused too much on exposing the source of information while "neglecting the accountability of players in the ecosystem who profit from harmful behaviour". Although he did not call for an increase in regulation per se , Buttarelli emphasised the need for stronger enforcement of the EU's imminent General Data Protection Regulation, as well as efforts to encourage the public to make better use of the increased rights it will grant them. The same is true for the EU e-Privacy Regulation , which is currently under review by member states, and in which he wants to see a "complete and explicit" ban on tracking walls and on the practice of excluding users who have ad-blocking enabled. "It is not enough to rely on the goodwill of ultimately unaccountable commercial players," he said. "We need now to intervene in the interests of spreading more fairly the benefits of digitisation." 

[w779] 

[w780]  Cambridge Analytica: Facebook 'being investigated by FTC'Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal  The US Federal Trade Commission is reported to be investigating Facebook after allegations that 50 million users' private information was misused by a political consultancy firm. Cambridge Analytica (CA), hired by the Trump campaign in the 2016 US election, has been accused of taking the personal data unknown to users. CA head Alexander Nix has now been suspended by the company board. The move came amid allegations the firm may have broken US electoral law. CA, which is based in London, denies any wrongdoing. Meanwhile, Facebook's stock has continued to slide , following a steep decline on Monday. The British and European parliaments have called on Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg to give evidence to them. , and the social network is due to brief congressional aides on Wednesday. Mr Zuckerberg did not attend a Facebook staff briefing on the crisis at its Californian headquarters on Tuesday , which was led by deputy general counsel Paul Grewal instead, the Daily Beast news site reports . Where is Mark Zuckerberg? The global reach of Cambridge Analytica Cambridge Analytica: The story so far End of self-regulation era? By Dave Lee, North America Technology Reporter, BBC News The criticisms of Facebook, and in particular Mark Zuckerberg, have never been louder or angrier. Employees at the company were addressed this morning not by their chief executive, but by one of the company's top lawyers. A Facebook spokeswoman said both Mr Zuckerberg and his deputy Sheryl Sandberg were too busy to address staff themselves. The firm added it was "outraged to be deceived" by Cambridge Analytica. A sign, perhaps, that Facebook is doubling down on the view that it is the victim. On Wednesday Facebook will send representatives to Washington to answer to Congress - the first step on what is set to be something of a world tour of explaining to investigators how on Earth this activity was able to happen. The loss to Facebook's value has been more than $60bn (£43bn) since this news broke. The wider impact for Silicon Valley is that it seems the era of tech companies essentially regulating themselves is perhaps coming to a dramatic end. Why is the FTC getting involved? The FTC is an independent agency of the US government tasked with protecting American consumers. It is investigating whether Facebook violated the terms of a 2011 decree regarding the social network's privacy protections , an unnamed source "familiar with the agency's thinking and not authorised to speak on the record" told the Washington Post newspaper. This was confirmed by a Bloomberg news agency report , quoting an unnamed "person familiar with the matter". Under the 2011 decree, Facebook must notify users and obtain their permission before data about them is shared beyond the privacy settings they have established, the Washington Post says. Facebook was also subjected to 20 years of privacy checkups to ensure compliance. Facebook confirmed on Tuesday that it was expecting to receive a letter from the FTC with questions about the data acquired by CA. However, it also said it had had no indication of a formal investigation, Reuters news agency reports. "We remain strongly committed to protecting people's information," Facebook deputy chief privacy officer Rob Sherman said. "We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have." In its statement on Tuesday, it said: "The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens." How to protect your Facebook data Facebook data sharing - time to act? What are the accusations against CA? Christopher Wylie, who worked with the consultancy firm, alleges that it amassed large amounts of data through a personality quiz on Facebook called This is Your Digital Life. Media playback is unsupported on your device Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, was filmed by undercover reporters for Channel 4 News He says that 270,000 people took the quiz but the data of some 50 million users, mainly in the US, was harvested without their explicit consent via their friend networks. Mr Wylie says that data was sold to CA, which then used it to psychologically profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them, with a view to influencing the outcome of the 2016 election. CA insists it followed the correct procedures in obtaining and using data - but it was suspended from Facebook last week. Did CA break US electoral law? Channel 4 News, which conducted an undercover investigation into the consultancy firm, reports that it may have broken US electoral law, which prohibits co-ordination between an official election campaign and outside groups, or "Super PACs". CA executives were filmed discussing a twin-track strategy to campaigning , putting out positive messages through Donald Trump's official presidential campaign, while attack ads were promoted by outside organisations. Boasting about CA's work for the Trump campaign, Mr Nix told the undercover team: "We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy." At the same time, CA managing director Mark Turnbull appeared to confirm for the undercover team that CA had created the Defeat Crooked Hillary brand of attack ads, funded by a super-PAC called Make America Number 1. The firm has denied wrongdoing, saying they operated according to a strict firewall and that they were transparent about their activities. How can you protect your data on Facebook? There are a few things to be aware of if you want to restrict who has access to your data: Keep an eye on apps, especially those which require you to log in using your Facebook account - they often have a very wide range of permissions and many are specifically designed to pick up your data Use an ad blocker to limit advertising Look at your Facebook security settings and make sure you are aware of what is enabled. Check the individual app settings to see whether you have given them permission to view your friends as well as yourself. You can download a copy of the data Facebook holds on you, although it is not comprehensive. There is a download button at the bottom of the General Account Settings tab. However bear in mind that your data may be less secure sitting on your laptop than it is on Facebook's servers, if your device is hacked. You can of course, simply leave Facebook, but the campaign group Privacy International warns that privacy concerns extend beyond the social network. "The current focus is on protecting your data being exploited by third parties, but your data is being exploited all the time," said a spokeswoman. "Many apps on your phone will have permission to access location data, your entire phone book and so on. It is just the tip of the iceberg." 

[w786]   

[w787]   European, UK and US pols summon Zuckerberg as FTC eyes probe of Facebook over data violations  The fallout from the story concerning Facebook, Cambridge Analytica, the misuse of personal data and how much Facebook knew about all this, has quickly made its way into the halls of government — and with it Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg is getting a lot of invitations in his inbox. This afternoon, Antonio Tajani, the president of the European Parliament, publicly issued a call to Zuckerberg to appear before state members to answer questions about personal data on Facebook and the role it plays in swaying elections. “Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy,” he said. The invitation follows calls out of the UK and US for appearances from Zuck, too. Earlier today, Damian Collins, a member of parliament who is the chair of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport select committee in the UK, issued a request to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to provide oral evidence to the committee. Meanwhile, Mark Warner, the U.S. Senator who is vice chair of the Intelligence Committee, has also requested that Zuckerberg, along with other tech CEOs, testify in order to answer questions about Facebook’s role in “social manipulation” in the 2016 election. Meanwhile, Bloomberg is also  reporting that the Federal Trade Commission is opening a probe into Facebook and the misuse of personal data, related to a consent decree that was issued in 2011 over the social network’s personal data handling policies. The FTC said it could not comment on any probe, but it hinted that past precedence, involving Google, indicating that violations of consent decrees are taken seriously and investigated. “We are aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating,” it said in a statement a spokesperson provided to TechCrunch. “We take any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously as we did in 2012 in a privacy case involving  Google .” “We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information. We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the FTC may have,” Rob Sherman, Deputy Chief Privacy Officer of Facebook, said in response to the report. The original decree  was made as a settlement to an inquiry at the time into how Facebook — then just a startup but growing wildly fast — “deceived consumers by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public,” and it arose specifically in relation to how third-party apps were able to use and access this data. This is key because the original survey that users filled out was, in fact, an app of sorts, linking into Facebook by way of its API. The idea behind the FTC settlement in 2011 was to ensure that Facebook made its privacy and data handling policies clear to consumers going forward, and to get their “express consent” before information is shared beyond the privacy settings those users established. Specific details of the 2011 decree included barring Facebook from making misrepresentations about privacy and security of personal information; getting user consent before making change that override privacy preferences; preventing material to be shared after an account was deleted or deactivated; and maintaining a privacy program assessing risks and getting this audited every two years. The decree also notes that it will terminate 20 years from the date of being issued, but that it will renew for another 20 years each time that the FTC files a complaint over any violations — meaning, if the FTC does file a complaint and is successful in determining the violation, it will prolong Facebook’s own need to report and make clear privacy policies to its users. Policians call on Zuck to answer for the company The trio of calls from government representatives asking for Zuckerberg to make an appearance himself to discuss the role of Facebook is notable not least because it is coming from so many places at once — a loud chorus that may well finally provide the pressure needed to see the executive come out from behind his status updates. To be clear, Warner’s public call for Zuckerberg to speak, delivered earlier this morning by way of a Tweet, was not the first time that the Intel Committee has requested Zuckerberg to testify: it had also invited him to the original hearing in November of last year, where lawyers were sent instead. It's time for Mr. Zuckerberg and the other CEOs to testify before Congress. The American people deserve answers about social media manipulation in the 2016 election. — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) March 20, 2018 Meanwhile, Collins’ invitation also comes in the wake of other requests for top Facebook executives, for hearings that the DCMS has held both in London and, just weeks ago, in Washington in an attempt to attract more senior executives to participate. “The Committtee has repeatedly asked Facebook about how companies acquire and hold on to user data from their site, and in particular about whether data had been taken without their consent,” Collins writes in his letter. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk, and have been misleading to the Committee. It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process.” Facebook has until March 26 to respond to the invitation. “We have received a letter from the Digital, Culture, Media and Sports Committee and will of course respond by the given deadline,” a spokesperson said. “In the meantime, we continue to engage with the Committee and respond to their requests for information.” Most damning of all perhaps is the call from the European Parliament president, with its note putting Facebook on the defensive from the word go, but also potentially giving the company an avenue to try to explain itself better than it has. We’ve invited Mark Zuckerberg to the European Parliament. Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy. — Antonio Tajani (@EP_President) March 20, 2018 Indeed, the thinking now seems to be that the increased attention, and the revelations in the media, will now force Facebook’s hand a bit more than before. The summons to give evidence before the parliamentary committee or Congress are not legally binding, but they are significant for other reasons. For one, they provide a moment to hear Zuckerberg give live responses to questions as they are presented to him: up to now, a lot of what we’ve heard from the CEO on the subject of Facebook and its position in the wider issue of elections, fake news and the use of social media help achieve certain outcomes, has largely come in the form of long Facebook posts by him, with little in the way of dialogue (which is in itself a little ironic when you consider the whole point of Facebook is supposed to be about engagement). While there are no direct legal ramifications for testifying, what it does do is provide more evidence for lawmakers. At a time when we have relatively light regulation for social media and how it handles data in the US, this could become a critical moment where we may start to see more calls and efforts to start to regulate this area of digital media more carefully. A third reason why testifying is notable is because of the optics: for a lot of people who do not understand and care much about the intricacies of how social networks handle their data, this could bring new light to the topic, on both sides of the table. Perhaps especially important for Zuckerberg if he’s truly considering a run for public office sometime in the future, as some have reported. “We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” said Paul Grewal, VP and Deputy General Counsel, in a statement provided to TechCrunch. Updated with response from the FTC, comments from the European Parliament president, and also Facebook’s comments. 


[w788]  Cambridge Analytica Facebook Mark Zuckerberg Privacy Security  Federal lawmakers are now calling for Mark Zuckerberg to personally testify before Congress after bombshell reports revealed late last week that the shadowy political consultancy Cambridge Analytica acquired personal information on as many as 50 million Facebook users, many without their explicit permission. Facebook remains under fire as British and American authorities are demanding an explanation, not only as to how Cambridge Analytica gained access to Facebook’s data, but as for why it took years for Facebook to notify the public. Sen. Mark Warner, vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, tweeted Tuesday morning it was time for “Mr. Zuckerberg and other CEOs” to testify before Congress. “The American people deserve answers about social media manipulation in the 2016 election,” he said. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, reportedly echoed Warner’s call while speaking with reporters Tuesday morning, saying that legislation may be required “if the industry won’t solve these kinds of problems themselves.” Advertisement Sen. Feinstein told Gizmodo by email that she was concerned that Cambridge Analytica may have used private Facebook data to assist the Trump campaign. (The firm, founded in 2013 with backing from the billionaire Republican donor Robert Mercer, consulted for Trump during the 2016 election.) Feinstein said the Senate Judiciary Committee needed to hear from Cambridge Analytica, the Trump campaign, and Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower and former Cambridge Analytica employee who brought to light the misuse of Facebook’s data. “It would also be helpful for Facebook to testify about how the company protects user privacy and what steps it’s taking to combat bad actors,” Feinstein added. “We have a lot of questions about how this information was used, whether it was given to Russia and whether Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign communicated with WikiLeaks. These questions need answers.” Advertisement Revealed on Monday, an undercover string orchestrated by British reporters at Channel 4 News caught CEO Alexander Nix and other executives boasting about using fake news, bribes, and sex workers to target politicians. At one point in the video, Nix suggests the consultancy might “send some girls around to the candidate’s house, we have lots of history of things.” Video evidence notwithstanding, Cambridge Analytica has denied ever using honey-pots or offers of bribes to entrap political opponents. Facebook did not respond to an inquiry regarding the potential for Zuckerberg to testify in person, pointing instead to a statement issued yesterday by Facebook vice president and deputy general counsel, Paul Grewal: “We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information.” Advertisement It’s unclear how far a Facebook investigation into Cambridge Analytica’s misuse of user data could actually get at the moment. Facebook said it dispatched forensic auditors from the firm Stroz Friedberg to Cambridge Analytica’s London offices yesterday evening. However, the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office reportedly ordered the auditors to leave the premises, pending a warrant granting British authorities access to the company’s computers and servers. If US lawmakers won’t compel Zuckerberg to testify, the British House of Commons may try instead . In letter circulated via Twitter , British lawmakers have requested that Zuckerberg “appear before us to give oral evidence.” Advertisement During hearings last fall into Moscow’s use of Facebook and other social media to influence US voters, Zuckerberg’s absence was glaring. Sen. Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses with the Democrats for committee purposes, memorably chided the CEOs of Facebook, Twitter, and Google during a November intelligence hearing. “I’m disappointed that you’re here and not your CEOs,” King told a group of corporate attorneys. “We would appreciate seeing the top people who are actually making the decisions.” Sen. Joe Manchin echoed the same: “I wish that your CEOs would be here. They need to answer for this.” But beyond the shellacking Facebook is suffering on Wall Street—the company’s stock price is down another 5 percent today, as of this writing, following a precipitous drop on Monday—it’s hard to say whether anyone will “answer for this.” Zuckerberg’s net worth reportedly dropped by around $5 billion by end-of-business Monday, but according to MarketWatch , a financial website run by Dow Jones & Company, Zuckerberg sold roughly 5 million Facebook shares this year already, potentially saving him up to $40 million in losses. Advertisement According to Bloomberg’s sources , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has begun probing whether the social media company had violated a 2012 consent decree over the use of personal data. The FTC told Gizmodo that it could neither confirm nor deny an investigation was underway, adding it takes all allegations regarding violations of its consent decrees seriously. Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer reportedly told Reuters that the company would “appreciate the opportunity” to answer any questions the FTC might have. Senators Richard Burr and Chuck Grassley, the top Republicans on the Senate intelligence and judiciary committees, respectively, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 

[w789] 

[w790]  Here (Was Once) a Photo of Cambridge Analytica’s CEO With the Russian Ambassador to the UK  “Truth is relative”: Trump and Giuliani make the case to support MoJo ’s new reporting project to combat disinformation. Here (Was Once) a Photo of Cambridge Analytica’s CEO With the Russian Ambassador to the UK One of these men boasted of blackmailing politicians. The other is Putin’s representative.  . The photographer, Tony Ramirez, has asked us to remove the photo of Alexander Nix and Alexander Yakovenko, the Russian ambassador to the United Kingdom. We have done so. The photo is now password-protected on the photographer’s website. Original story : Alexander Nix, the CEO of Cambridge Analytica, made splashy headlines this week when Britain’s Channel 4 News broadcast undercover video of Nix and a colleague boasting that their firm  entraps politicians through sting operations using fake businessmen offering bribes and covert seduction schemes involving Ukrainian women. Nix’s company, which is best known for its work with Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, has also been in the news for sneakily acquiring data on as many as 50 million Facebook users for its own secretive purposes. Cambridge Analytica denied wrongdoing in the Channel 4 investigation. But the hidden-camera video was quite damning. The footage, though, was a bit grainy. So here is a clearer shot of Nix, snapped during a polo match in which he played on July 28, 2016. He happens to be posing with Alexander Yakovenko, the Russian ambassador to the United Kingdom. The photo was taken days after Democratic National Committee files and emails hacked by Russian intelligence were dumped online by WikiLeaks at the start of the Democratic Party’s convention. The previous month, the Trump campaign had hired Nix’s company, and by this point, it had been widely reported that Russian intelligence was behind the DNC hack. The photograph was part of a series of snaps on a website presenting polo photos for purchase. Journalists, researchers, and congressional investigators have wondered about any ties between Cambridge Analytica and Russia. This photo is hardly evidence of an untoward connection. But last year a Huffington Post article on Robert and Rebekah Mercer, the super-wealthy, right-wing backers of Cambridge Analytica, did note that Rebekah, at one meeting with Nix, was highly impressed by Nix’s polo skills, gushing about his prowess and asking him to show cellphone photos of himself on horseback. 


[w791]  Cambridge Analytica execs boast of role in getting Donald Trump elected        Cambridge Analytica execs boast of role in getting Donald Trump elected  What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer Senior executives from the firm at the heart of Facebook’s data breach boasted of playing a key role in bringing Donald Trump to power and said they used “unattributable and untrackable” advertising to support their clients in elections, according to an undercover expose. Cambridge University asks Facebook for evidence about role of academic Read more In secretly recorded conversations, Cambridge Analytica’s CEO, Alexander Nix, claimed he had met Trump “many times”, while another senior member of staff said the firm was behind the “defeat crooked Hillary” advertising campaign. “We just put information into the bloodstream of the internet and then watch it grow, give it a little push every now and again over time to watch it take shape,” said the executive. “And so this stuff infiltrates the online community, but with no branding, so it’s unattributable, untrackable.” Caught on camera by an undercover team from Channel 4 News, Nix was also dismissive of Democrats on the House intelligence committee, who had questioned him over Russian meddling in the 2016 campaign. Senior managers then appeared to suggest that in their work for US clients, there was planned division of work between official campaigns and unaffiliated “political action groups”. MPs summon Mark Zuckerberg and accuse Facebook of misleading them Read more That could be considered coordination – which is not allowed under US election law. The firm has denied any wrongdoing. Cambridge Analytica said it had a firewall policy in place, signed by all staff and strictly enforced. The disclosures are the latest to hit Cambridge Analytica, which has been under mounting pressure since Sunday, when the Observer reported the company had unauthorised access to tens of millions of Facebook profiles – and used them to build a political targeting system. In Tuesday’s second instalment of an undercover investigation by Channel 4 News in association with the Observer, Nix said he had a close working relationship with Trump and claimed Cambridge Analytica was pivotal to his successful campaign. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy,” he told reporters who were posing as potential clients from Sri Lanka. The company’s head of data, Alex Tayler, added: “When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3m votes but won the electoral college vote that’s down to the data and the research. “You did your rallies in the right locations, you moved more people out in those key swing states on election day. That’s how he won the election.”    Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Read more Another executive, Mark Turnbull, managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division, was recorded saying: “He won by 40,000 votes in three states. The margins were tiny.” Turnbull took credit for one of the most well known and controversial campaigns of the last presidential campaign, organised by the political action group Make America Number 1. “The brand was ‘Defeat Crooked Hillary’. You’ll remember this of course?” he told the undercover reporter. “The zeros, the OO of crooked were a pair of handcuffs ... We made hundreds of different kinds of creative, and we put it online.” Turnbull said the company sometimes used “proxy organisations”, including charities and activist groups, to help disseminate the messages – and keep the company’s involvement in the background. When the undercover reporter expressed worries that American authorities might seize on details of a dirty campaign, Nix said the US had no jurisdiction over Cambridge Analytica, even though the company is American and is registered in Delaware. “I’m absolutely convinced that they have no jurisdiction,” he told the purported client. “So if US authorities came asking for information, they would simply refuse to collaborate. “We’ll say: none of your business.” Turnbull added. “We don’t talk about our clients.” Speaking to Channel 4 News before seeing the undercover film, Hillary Clinton said: “There was a new kind of campaign that was being run on the other side, that nobody had ever faced before. Because it wasn’t just all about me. It was about how to suppress voters who were inclined to vote for me … when you have a massive propaganda effort to prevent people from thinking straight, because they’re being flooded with false information.” In the report, Nix also implied that it was possible to mislead authorities by omission, discussing his appearance in front of the House intelligence committee, for its inquiry into possible Russian election meddling. The Republicans only asked three questions, which took five minutes, he told the reporter. And while the Democrats spent two hours questioning him, he claimed they were so far out of their depths that he didn’t mind responding. “We have no secrets. They’re politicians, they’re not technical. They don’t understand how it works,” he said, when asked about whether he was forced to testify. He went on to describe how political candidates are manipulated. “They don’t understand because the candidate never, is never involved. He’s told what to do by the campaign team.” The reporter asks if that means the candidate is just a puppet, and Nix replies simply: “Always.” In another exchange, Tayler describes an apparently planned division of spending on the campaign trail, with the candidate organising “positive” messages, with negative attack ads left to the super Pacs, which may engage in unlimited political spending independently of the campaigns. “As part of it, sometimes you have to separate it from the political campaign itself ... campaigns are normally subject to limits about how much money they can raise. Whereas outside groups can raise an unlimited amount.” “So the campaign will use their finite resources for things like persuasion and mobilisation and then they leave the ‘air war’ they call it, like the negative attack ads to other affiliated groups.” Play Video 13:04 Cambridge Analytica whistleblower: 'We spent $1m harvesting millions of Facebook profiles' – video This raises questions over whether Cambridge Analytica blurred the boundaries between official campaign groups, which have spending limits, and unaffiliated political action groups or super Pacs. The latter can spend as much as they want but must not coordinate with the candidate they support. The Campaign Legal Center has accused Cambridge Analytica over allegations of illegal coordination of this nature. It has filed evidence with the FEC alleging that the super Pac Make America Number 1 made illegal contributions to Trump’s campaign, “engaging in unlawful coordinated spending by using the common vendor Cambridge Analytica”. Cambridge Analytica said it had never claimed to have won the election for Donald Trump. “This is patently absurd. We are proud of the work we did on that campaign, and have spoken in many public forums about what we consider to be our contribution to the campaign.” It said there was no evidence of coordination between the Make America Number 1 super Pac and the Trump campaign. The company said it was not under investigation. It has accused the Channel 4 News undercover investigation of grossly misrepresenting how the company conducts its business. However, speaking to the BBC on Monday, Nix said he had “huge amounts of regret that we undertook this meeting and spoke with a certain amount of hyperbole”. On Tuesday the website Politico reported that Trump’s 2020 campaign was moving to distance itself from Cambridge Analytica. A campaign official told Politico it had no existing contracts with the firm and no plans to hire it in the future. 


[w792]  		Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse       Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse Any good will the company earned by talking about the problem first was quickly undone when reporters revealed Facebook's behind-the-scenes legal manoeuvring Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse  Facebook Inc. tried to get ahead of its latest media firestorm. Instead, it helped create one. The company knew ahead of time that on Saturday, the New York Times and The Guardian’s Observer would issue bombshell reports that the data firm that helped Donald Trump win the presidency had accessed and retained information on 50 million Facebook users without their permission. Facebook did two things to protect itself: it sent letters to the media firms laying out its legal case for why this data leak didn’t constitute a “breach.” And then it scooped the reports using their information, with a Friday blog post on why it was suspending the ad firm, Cambridge Analytica, from its site. Both moves backfired. Bad day for tech titans: Zuckerberg’s fortune alone drops $4.9B Canada’s privacy watchdog asks Facebook for info on data misuse that raises ‘serious concerns’ On Friday, Facebook said it “received reports” that Cambridge Analytica hadn’t deleted the user data, and that it needed to suspend the firm. The statement gave the impression that Facebook had looked into the matter. In fact, the company’s decisions were stemming from information in the news reports set to publish the next day, and it had not independently verified those reports, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. By trying to look proactive, Facebook ended up adding weight to the news. Most of its executives haven't done a real interview in ages, let alone answer deep questions On Saturday, any good will the company earned by talking about the problem first was quickly undone when reporters revealed Facebook’s behind-the-scenes legal manoeuvring. “Yesterday Facebook threatened to sue us. Today we publish this,” Carole Cadwalladr, the Observer reporter, wrote as she linked her story to Twitter, in a post shared almost 15,000 times. The Guardian said it had nothing to add to her statement. The Times confirmed that it too received a letter, but said it didn’t consider the correspondence a legal threat. Front-running the stories along with the letters to newsrooms are but two of several ways Facebook failed to contain fallout from the Cambridge Analytica revelations. Silence on the part of Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg didn’t help. Nor did a report late Monday in the New York Times that Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos is leaving after clashing with other executives, including Sandberg, over how Facebook handled Russian disinformation campaigns. Facebook said Stamos is still at the company, but didn’t outright deny that he plans to leave. “Most of its executives haven’t done a real interview in ages, let alone answer deep questions,” Zeynep Tufecki, an associate professor at the University of North Carolina who specializes in social networks and democracy, wrote in a post on Twitter. In a sign of investor dismay, Facebook shares tumbled 6.8 per cent on Monday, the biggest decline since March 2014. As the stock fell and criticism from lawmakers poured in from the U.S. and Britain, the company worked to make it clear that it didn’t actually have enough information, on its own, to react to Saturday’s news reports in a stronger way.   Facebook put out another blog post, saying that Cambridge Analytica and the researcher who provided them the data, Aleksandr Kogan, had agreed to a digital forensics audit to prove they deleted it. Facebook said the one person who didn’t agree to the audit was Christopher Wylie, the former Cambridge Analytica contractor who spoke to the newspapers about the data leak. With the post, Facebook aimed to stir more skepticism around Wylie’s information, according to a person familiar with the matter. That didn’t resolve things quickly either. The auditors were already on site at Cambridge Analytica’s London office Monday when they had to pause their work. The U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office is pursuing a warrant to conduct its own on-site investigation. The Cambridge Analytica saga is the latest in a series of bungled Facebook responses, often reactionary and sometimes unintentionally stirring public outrage instead of resolving concerns. The company’s interaction with the public tends to start with a carefully crafted blog post, and then evolve into a much more improvised Twitter-based conversation with lower-level executives who defend the social network and explain its decisions. It doesn’t always go well. Earlier this year, when the U.S. government indicted 13 Russians who used Facebook to manipulate voters, a Facebook advertising executive took to Twitter to clarify that overall, the Russian ads were primarily used to divide Americans, not influence the election. His comments went viral after President Donald Trump used them to back up attacks on the “fake news media.” In 2017, Facebook made its disclosures on Russia’s activities in a slow drip, each time illustrating a bigger problem. An April white paper on “information operations,” for example, didn’t name the country. The company that October said 10 million users saw Russia’s ads. Later that month, Facebook said 126 million people saw Russia’s posts in general. The company upped the number to 150 million during Congressional interrogation, when a senator asked if Facebook could include Instagram, the photo-sharing app it owns, in the count. Stamos, who has favoured more forthright disclosure, was frequently outvoted, according to the New York Times. He’s planning to leave the company in August, the newspaper reported. On Twitter, he later said he’s still fully engaged with his work at Facebook, without answering questions about his plans. But that would make him the most high-profile exit since Facebook’s election-related troubles began. Meanwhile, higher ranking executives remain quiet. Zuckerberg and Sandberg, who in past years would post frequently about the issues of the day, have shied away from reacting to the most controversial news. Lawmakers have now called out Zuckerberg by name in both the U.S. and the U.K. Zuckerberg and Sandberg plan to remain quiet on the Cambridge Analytica situation until the company completes its internal review of what happened, according to a person familiar with the matter. Until they do, questions about Facebook’s ability to cope with the Cambridge Analytica crisis will undoubtedly persist. 

[w793]  

[w794]  		Facebook being investigated by U.S. FTC over misuse of personal data, source says       Facebook being investigated by U.S. FTC over misuse of personal data, source says Facebook could be on the hook for thousands of dollars a day in fines if the FTC finds the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement over privacy settings . Facebook Inc. is under investigation by a U.S. privacy watchdog over the use of personal data of 50 million users by a data analytics firm to help elect President Donald Trump. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is probing whether Facebook violated terms of a 2011 consent decree following the revelations that user data had been transferred to Cambridge Analytica without their knowledge, according to a person familiar with the matter. Under the 2011 settlement, Facebook agreed to get user consent for certain changes to privacy settings as part of a settlement of federal charges that it deceived consumers and forced them to share more personal information than they intended. That complaint arose after the company changed some user settings without notifying its customers, according to an FTC statement at the time. Canada’s privacy watchdog asks Facebook for info on data misuse that raises ‘serious concerns’ Facebook tried to get ahead of the news, but made the Cambridge Analytica crisis even worse Mark Zuckerberg lost a massive $4.9 billion yesterday, and other tech titans didn’t fare much better Spokesmen for Facebook and the FTC didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. If the FTC finds Facebook violated terms of the consent decree, it has the power to fine the company thousands of dollars a day per violation. Facebook declined in New York trading, falling 3.2 per cent to US$167 as of 9:31 a.m. in New York. That follows a drop of 6.8 per cent Monday. The Facebook revelations have also prompted bipartisan, transatlantic concern. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada said Monday it wants Facebook to reveal whether any Canadians had personal information compromised. The U.S. Senate Commerce Committee announced Monday evening it would like a briefing on “the use and sharing of individual Facebook user data.” The chairman of a U.K. parliamentary committee announced Tuesday he was requesting that Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, who has remained silent for days, appear before the panel to supplement prior testimony by the company’s executives. Republican lawmakers, who normally resist regulation of private business, started coming down on the company as early as Sunday, with Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona calling the privacy violations “significant” and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida saying he was “disturbed” by many things about the company. 

[w795]    ‘A failure of leadership’: Zuckerberg slammed amid Facebook scandal ,   Facebook's data scandal having a corrosive effect on its brand: Expert    Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg shouldn’t stay quiet on the data scandal that has engulfed his company if he wants to save face, according to a public relations expert. “I think that they really have a mess on their hands – a PR nightmare,” Bob Pickard, principal at Signal Leadership Communication, told BNN in an interview Tuesday. “And they really have to come out and talk about what it is that they’re going to do to deal with the situation at the senior level and to regain the trust of consumers.” Shares of Facebook ( ) fell sharply Monday and extended those losses Tuesday following reports that the U.K. data firm Cambridge Analytica gained access to data on 50 million Facebook users to support Donald Trump’s U.S. presidential election campaign. The reports triggered pushback from privacy regulators in the U.S. and Europe. Zuckerberg has yet to speak out on the scandal, and Bloomberg is reporting both he and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg plan to keep a low profile until the company completes its internal review. “That vacuum is being filled with critics and naysayers who are questioning the company’s competence and questioning its character under these circumstances,” Pickard said.    READ MORE: FACEBOOK DATA SCANDAL How Facebook made its Cambridge Analytica data crisis even worse U.K. investigating Facebook's response to alleged data breach Facebook security chief Alex Stamos to depart, source says The social network company tried to get ahead of the media firestorm, Bloomberg reported, with a blog post Friday explaining why it was suspending Cambridge Analytica from its site. It also reportedly sent letters to major media outlets ahead of time explaining why the situation didn’t constitute as a breach. But Pickard said Facebook’s preemptive measures aren’t enough. “It kind of calls into question how sincere is their proactive communication, when they’re basically only saying stuff when they know the press is going to break it anyway on their behalf,” he said.    “Facebook, whatever they’ve done, it’s being lost now to this cataract of disaster that is coming from all of these different critics,” Pickard added. “They aren’t saying anything. It’s like a failure of leadership communication right now.”  'Zuckerberg needs to come clean': Bullseye Brief's Johnson Adam Johnson, founder and author of investment newsletter Bullseye Brief, gives his perspective on Facebook's data scandal and on Oracle posting mixed earnings results from its latest quarter. The company shed nearly US$40 billion of its market capitalization Monday and Zuckerberg saw his net worth fall by about US$5 billion. “There’s clearly a real brand hit,” said SocialFlow CEO Jim Anderson in an interview with BNN Tuesday. “Just look at all the coverage and the level of emotion that people have. I think the real open question is how much staying power there’ll be.” Pickard said the road ahead for Facebook will have “many different twists and turns.” “It’s hard to know where this is going to lead them,” he said. “There’s so much happening right now that people just reach a general, simple conclusion: this is a good company, or this is a bad company. I think they’re feeling that it’s the latter.”  


[w796] Facebook and Cambridge Analytica face legal questions  The National news Facebook and Cambridge Analytica face legal questions Facebook and data company Cambridge Analytica are facing legal questions — in the U.K., a warrant has been ordered to search Cambridge Analytica's London headquarters, and on this side of the Atlantic, U.S. congressional staff are scheduled to be briefed by Facebook. Its the latest fallout after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica targeted millions of Americans during the election campaign without their knowledge based on psychological profiles and surveys using data obtained from Facebook 


[w797] Facebook data whistleblower oversaw pilot project for Liberals in 2016, source says   


[w798]  	 DATA FIRM’S CEO SUSPENDED The head of the Trump-affiliated data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica is suspended, while government authorities bear down on both the firm and Facebook over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users to manipulate elections. 


[w799] Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak  Canada's privacy watchdog launches investigation into Facebook after allegations of data leak Canada's privacy watchdog has launched an investigation into Facebook after a series of media reports alleged that private online information belonging to millions of Americans was obtained by a company working on U.S. President Donald Trump's election campaign. 'If true, the allegations raise a major challenge for privacy rights,' says Daniel Therrien CBC News Posted: Mar 20, 2018 7:05 PM ET | Last Updated: March 21 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices Report Typo or Error Send Feedback Cambridge Analytica suspends CEO pending probe in Facebook data scandal Facebook's Zuckerberg keeps low profile as Cambridge Analytica scandal grows U.K. committee wants to hear Facebook's Zuckerberg on fake news, data supplied to Trump campaign Facebook shares fall as EU, U.S. urge probes of data practices Facebook suspends data analytics firm that worked for Trump campaign Canadian whistleblower on why he exposed 'problematic' Facebook data misuse by Trump consulting firm Who is Christopher Wylie? How a B.C. high school dropout set out on path to political data harvesting 


[w801]  Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada organization 			Privacy Commissioner launches Facebook investigation 																																					   News provided by Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada  The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada has opened an investigation related to recent media reports regarding alleged unauthorized access and use of Facebook user profiles. "We have received a complaint against Facebook in relation to allegations involving Cambridge Analytica and have therefore opened a formal investigation," says Commissioner Daniel Therrien. "The first step will be to confirm with the company whether the personal information of Facebook users in Canada was affected."   The investigation will examine Facebook's compliance with Canada's federal private sector privacy law, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA). "The allegations we've seen in media reports raise extremely important privacy questions. The digital world, and social media in particular, have become entrenched in our daily lives and people want their rights to be respected." The UK Information Commissioner's Office has an ongoing related investigation. "We will remain in contact with the UK office and will work with other data protection authorities as appropriate. Ultimately, our goal is to ensure that the privacy rights of Canadian Facebook users are protected," says Commissioner Therrien. Due to confidentiality provisions under PIPEDA, no further details regarding the investigation are available at this time. Generally speaking, PIPEDA requires meaningful and informed consent for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information in the course of commercial activities. Under the law, companies are also accountable for how they manage and safeguard the personal information in their care and must ensure that it is not disclosed inappropriately. Neither PIPEDA nor Canada's federal public sector privacy law, the Privacy Act , applies to political parties. The Commissioner has asked Parliament to consider regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information by political parties. In fact, both federal privacy laws are in urgent need of reform and the Commissioner has called on the government to address the shortcomings in Canada's privacy regime. "If true, the allegations raise a major challenge for privacy rights. We have recommended strengthening Canada's private sector law in order to help strengthen consumer trust. I welcome the support of a Parliamentary committee that recently reviewed PIPEDA ," says Commissioner Therrien. About the Privacy Commissioner of Canada The Privacy Commissioner of Canada is mandated by Parliament to act as an ombudsman and guardian of privacy in Canada. The Commissioner enforces two laws for the protection of personal information: the Privacy Act , which applies to the federal public sector; and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act , Canada's federal private sector privacy law. Please note that we are not in a position to offer interviews at this time due to confidentiality provisions under federal privacy law. 

[w802] Political firm laid out a list of dirty tricks in broadcast 


[w804] 

[w805]   Facebook Haunted by Its Handling of 2016 Election Meddling     Days after the 2016 election, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg dismissed the idea that fake news shared on the social-media site influenced the election, calling it a “pretty crazy idea.” Facebook didn’t publicly acknowledge that its platform might have played a role in Russia’s election meddling until April 2017, when a company release noted that its “data does not contradict” a January 2017 report by the U.S. director of National Intelligence. As indicated in a footnote, that’s a reference to the U.S. intelligence agencies’ conclusion that Russia carried out a vast cybercampaign in an effort to help elect Donald Trump. Now Facebook is facing an intensifying backlash over its handling of various elements of the 2016 campaign. The latest crisis came on Monday night, when the New York Times and other outlets reported that Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer, is set to leave the company by August. Stamos is widely respected within the cybersecurity community, but that’s not the sole reason that his expected departure is such a blow. It’s also exposed a debate among Facebook executives over how to address attempts to misuse the platform, and how much to disclose following security breaches. According to the Times , there’s been ongoing tension within Facebook’s upper ranks between the security team, which tended to push for more public disclosures on misuse by Russia and other nations, and the legal and policy teams, which prioritized protecting the company’s business interests. Stamos was said to be a key advocate for publicizing Russia’s interference and working to combat it, even before the election. Per the Times : Mr. Stamos first put together a group of engineers to scour Facebook for Russian activity in June 2016, the month the Democratic National Committee announced it had been attacked by Russian hackers, the current and former employees said. By November 2016, the team had uncovered evidence that Russian operatives had aggressively pushed DNC leaks and propaganda on Facebook … In the ensuing months, Facebook’s security team found more Russian disinformation and propaganda on its site, according to the current and former employees. By the spring of 2017, deciding how much Russian interference to disclose publicly became a major source of contention within the company. In early 2017, Stamos penned a memo describing Russia’s activities on the site, but direct references to Russia were reportedly scrubbed from the report, resulting in the vague aforementioned document published in April 2017. However, efforts to avoid publicly discussing Russia’s activities didn’t make the controversy go away. Months after media reports shed more light on Russia’s use of fake ads and user accounts, in September 2017 the company said it had uncovered a vast Russian campaign to spread propaganda on the site: In reviewing the ads buys, we have found approximately $100,000 in ad spending from June of 2015 to May of 2017 — associated with roughly 3,000 ads — that was connected to about 470 inauthentic accounts and Pages in violation of our policies. Our analysis suggests these accounts and Pages were affiliated with one another and likely operated out of Russia. In a statement on Facebook Live at the time, Zuckerberg said the company was cooperating with investigators, and taking steps to make political advertising more transparent. When representatives from Facebook, as well as several other top tech companies, testified before Congress in the fall, lawmakers still criticized them for being slow to address the problem. Stamos pushed back against reports of his imminent departure on Monday night, tweeting that while his role at the company has changed, “I’m still fully engaged with my work at Facebook.” He also denied that fellow executives hampered his efforts to investigate Russian election meddling (though he did not say whether there was resistance to disclosing those findings). To be clear, the security team has never been prevented or discouraged from investigating any Russian activity by any executives. https://t.co/At2KSn8oXE — Alex Stamos (@alexstamos) March 20, 2018 Even if Stamos stays put, Facebook has plenty of other crises to deal with. Over the weekend Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica, which ran data operations for Trump’s 2016 campaign, ahead of media exposés on how it harvested data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles. Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American academic working with Cambridge Analytica, allegedly violated Facebook’s terms of use by saying the data would be used for academic purposes, not political purposes. Aided by the Trump connection, the stories drew attention to Facebook’s loose rules for accessing users’ data. Kogan’s initial collection was no different from what thousands of developers — from Farmville to Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign — have done legitimately. (The rules have been tightened since 2015, and allowing third-party apps to access your information no longer gives them access to all your friends’ data as well.) Now lawmakers in the U.S. and Europe are calling for probes into how Facebook and other social-media companies protect users’ data from third-party companies. Several members of Congress demanded that Zuckerberg testify on Capitol Hill about how Cambridge Analytica obtained its data. Related Stories   “Facebook, Google, and Twitter have amassed unprecedented amounts of personal data and use this data when selling advertising, including political advertisements,” Senators Amy Klobuchar and John Kennedy wrote in a letter to Senator Chuck Grassley, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “The lack of oversight on how data is stored and how political advertisements are sold raises concerns about the integrity of American elections as well as privacy rights.” Grassley’s spokesperson said he has not decided whether to hold a hearing, but the controversies are already having an impact on Facebook. Its stock fell 6.8 percent on Monday, its worst single-day drop in four years. The company lost more than $36 billion in market value, and Zuckerberg personally lost $6.06 billion. Facebook can certainly survive the loss of a top security chief and another grilling from lawmakers, but it’s a company built on trust. What happens if the ongoing revelations about Facebook’s failure to protect users from Russian disinformation and the inappropriate use of their profile data make people less interested in handing over their personal information? 


[w806]  FACEBOOK EFFECT: Facebook stocks dropped another 2.6 percent on Tuesday following reports that the Federal Trade Commission will open investigations on its handling of user data following the revelations that Cambridge Analytica harvested private data of its 50 million users. Its shares have fallen 9 percent this week, its worst performance in two years. Other social media companies in the U.S. also finished the day lower on concerns that the government might enact new laws affecting their businesses. In Asia, reactions were relatively muted. Tencent Holdings, which operates China's largest social media app WeChat and is expected to announce earnings later in the day, jumped 1.6 percent. South Korea's Naver Corp., parent of Line messenger app, added 0.1 percent. 


[w807]   UK MPs ask Facebook’s Zuckerberg to testify on data row A British parliamentary committee on Tuesday asks Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg to appear before it to explain in person claims that millions of users’ data were harvested for political campaigns. Damian Collins, chairman of the House of Commons digital, culture, media and sport committee, writes to Zuckerberg asking for his own account of “this catastrophic failure of process.” The request is made as part of the committee’s ongoing investigation into fake news, which saw its members last month visit Washington for hearings with officials from Facebook and Twitter. But it follows allegations that data from up to 50 million Facebook users were harvested by a British company, Cambridge Analytica, for use in the election campaign of US President Donald Trump in 2016. “Following material published in the UK Guardian and The New York Times over the past few days, the committee would like to request that you appear before us to give oral evidence,” Collins writes. Collins sets Zuckerberg a deadline of March 26 to reply. 


[w808]   Former officials have been worried that Facebook's data sharing with Cambridge Analytica may have violated the FTC consent decree , and it looks like existing officials share their concern. Bloomberg sources have claimed that the FTC is probing Facebook to determine whether the social network broke the decree by letting Cambridge Analytica obtain users' data without their express permission. If it did, the FTC could call for fines up to $40,000 per person, although that's unlikely when there are roughly 50 million affected users. continued contents The FTC hasn't commented on the apparent leak, although any probe would likely take a significant amount of time for the agency to reach a definitive conclusion. If the trade regulator does get involved, it'll join a slew of state-level, UK and European Union investigations. Members of Congress want answers , too. Facebook is scrambling to deal with the scandal on its own terms, but it may be too late for the company to avoid serious legal repercussions -- especially when it reportedly knew about the data sharing in 2015. 


[w809]  'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine      'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine    'Utterly horrifying': ex-Facebook insider says covert data harvesting was routine  i‘It has been painful watching. Because I know that they could have prevented it.’ Hundreds of millions of Facebook users are likely to have had their private information harvested by companies that exploited the same terms as the firm that collected data and passed it on to Cambridge Analytica, according to a new whistleblower. Sandy Parakilas, the platform operations manager at Facebook responsible for policing data breaches by third-party software developers between 2011 and 2012, told the Guardian he warned senior executives at the company that its lax approach to data protection risked a major breach. Where's Zuck? Facebook CEO silent as data harvesting scandal unfolds Read more “My concerns were that all of the data that left Facebook servers to developers could not be monitored by Facebook, so we had no idea what developers were doing with the data,” he said. Parakilas said Facebook had terms of service and settings that “people didn’t read or understand” and the company did not use its enforcement mechanisms, including audits of external developers, to ensure data was not being misused. Parakilas, whose job was to investigate data breaches by developers similar to the one later suspected of Global Science Research, which harvested tens of millions of Facebook profiles and provided the data to Cambridge Analytica, said the slew of recent disclosures had left him disappointed with his superiors for not heeding his warnings. “It has been painful watching,” he said, “because I know that they could have prevented it.” Play Video 3:41 What is the Cambridge Analytica scandal? - video explainer Asked what kind of control Facebook had over the data given to outside developers, he replied: “Zero. Absolutely none. Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on.” Parakilas said he “always assumed there was something of a black market” for Facebook data that had been passed to external developers. However, he said that when he told other executives the company should proactively “audit developers directly and see what’s going on with the data” he was discouraged from the approach. He said one Facebook executive advised him against looking too deeply at how the data was being used, warning him: “Do you really want to see what you’ll find?” Parakilas said he interpreted the comment to mean that “Facebook was in a stronger legal position if it didn’t know about the abuse that was happening”. He added: “They felt that it was better not to know. I found that utterly shocking and horrifying.” Parakilas first went public with his concerns about privacy at Facebook four months ago, but his direct experience policing Facebook data given to third parties throws new light on revelations over how such data was obtained by Cambridge Analytica. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment on the information supplied by Parakilas, but directed the Guardian to a November 2017 blogpost in which the company defended its data sharing practices, which it said had “significantly improved” over the last five years. “While it’s fair to criticise how we enforced our developer policies more than five years ago, it’s untrue to suggest we didn’t or don’t care about privacy,” that statement said. “The facts tell a different story.” ‘A majority of Facebook users’ Parakilas, 38, who now works as a product manager for Uber, is particularly critical of Facebook’s previous policy of allowing developers to access the personal data of friends of people who used apps on the platform, without the knowledge or express consent of those friends. That feature, called friends permission, was a boon to outside software developers who, from 2007 onwards, were given permission by Facebook to build quizzes and games – like the widely popular FarmVille – that were hosted on the platform. The apps proliferated on Facebook in the years leading up to the company’s 2012 initial public offering, an era when most users were still accessing the platform via laptops and computers rather than smartphones. Facebook took a 30% cut of payments made through apps, but in return enabled their creators to have access to Facebook user data. Parakilas does not know how many companies sought friends permission data before such access was terminated around mid-2014. However, he said he believes tens or maybe even hundreds of thousands of developers may have done so. It has been painful watching, because I know they could have prevented it Parakilas estimates that “a majority of Facebook users” could have had their data harvested by app developers without their knowledge. The company now has stricter protocols around the degree of access third parties have to data. Parakilas said that when he worked at Facebook it failed to take full advantage of its enforcement mechanisms, such as a clause that enables the social media giant to audit external developers who misuse its data. Legal action against rogue developers or moves to ban them from Facebook were “extremely rare”, he said, adding: “In the time I was there, I didn’t see them conduct a single audit of a developer’s systems.” Facebook announced on Monday that it had hired a digital forensics firm to conduct an audit of Cambridge Analytica. The decision comes more than two years after Facebook was made aware of the reported data breach. During the time he was at Facebook, Parakilas said the company was keen to encourage more developers to build apps for its platform and “one of the main ways to get developers interested in building apps was through offering them access to this data”. Shortly after arriving at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters he was told that any decision to ban an app required the personal approval of the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, although the policy was later relaxed to make it easier to deal with rogue developers. about While the previous policy of giving developers access to Facebook users’ friends’ data was sanctioned in the small print in Facebook’s terms and conditions, and users could block such data sharing by changing their settings, Parakilas said he believed the policy was problematic. “It was well understood in the company that that presented a risk,” he said. “Facebook was giving data of people who had not authorised the app themselves, and was relying on terms of service and settings that people didn’t read or understand.” It was this feature that was exploited by Global Science Research, and the data provided to Cambridge Analytica in 2014. GSR was run by the Cambridge University psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, who built an app that was a personality test for Facebook users. The test automatically downloaded the data of friends of people who took the quiz, ostensibly for academic purposes. Cambridge Analytica has denied knowing the data was obtained improperly, and Kogan maintains he did nothing illegal and had a “close working relationship” with Facebook. While Kogan’s app only attracted around 270,000 users (most of whom were paid to take the quiz), the company was then able to exploit the friends permission feature to quickly amass data pertaining to more than 50 million Facebook users. “Kogan’s app was one of the very last to have access to friend permissions,” Parakilas said, adding that many other similar apps had been harvesting similar quantities of data for years for commercial purposes. Academic research from 2010, based on an analysis of 1,800 Facebooks apps , concluded that around 11% of third-party developers requested data belonging to friends of users. If those figures were extrapolated, tens of thousands of apps, if not more, were likely to have systematically culled “private and personally identifiable” data belonging to hundreds of millions of users, Parakilas said. The ease with which it was possible for anyone with relatively basic coding skills to create apps and start trawling for data was a particular concern, he added. Parakilas said he was unsure why Facebook stopped allowing developers to access friends data around mid-2014, roughly two years after he left the company. However, he said he believed one reason may have been that Facebook executives were becoming aware that some of the largest apps were acquiring enormous troves of valuable data. He recalled conversations with executives who were nervous about the commercial value of data being passed to other companies. “They were worried that the large app developers were building their own social graphs, meaning they could see all the connections between these people,” he said. “They were worried that they were going to build their own social networks.” ‘They treated it like a PR exercise’ Parakilas said he lobbied internally at Facebook for “a more rigorous approach” to enforcing data protection, but was offered little support. His warnings included a PowerPoint presentation he said he delivered to senior executives in mid-2012 “that included a map of the vulnerabilities for user data on Facebook’s platform”. “I included the protective measures that we had tried to put in place, where we were exposed, and the kinds of bad actors who might do malicious things with the data,” he said. “On the list of bad actors I included foreign state actors and data brokers.” Frustrated at the lack of action, Parakilas left Facebook in late 2012. “I didn’t feel that the company treated my concerns seriously. I didn’t speak out publicly for years out of self-interest, to be frank.” How to protect your Facebook privacy – or delete yourself completely Read more That changed, Parakilas said, when he heard the congressional testimony given by Facebook lawyers to Senate and House investigators in late 2017 about Russia’s attempt to sway the presidential election. “They treated it like a PR exercise,” he said. “They seemed to be entirely focused on limiting their liability and exposure rather than helping the country address a national security issue.” It was at that point that Parakilas decided to go public with his concerns, writing an opinion article in the New York Times that said Facebook could not be trusted to regulate itself. Since then, Parakilas has become an adviser to the Center for Humane Technology , which is run by Tristan Harris, a former Google employee turned whistleblower on the industry. 

[w810]   MPs summon Mark Zuckerberg, saying Facebook misled them  MPs summon Mark Zuckerberg, saying Facebook misled them        Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive and founder of Facebook, was given a deadline of 26 March to respond.  MPs have summoned Mark Zuckerberg to appear before a select committee investigating fake news and accused his company of misleading them at a previous hearing. The Facebook founder has been called to give evidence to the digital, culture, media and sport committee after revelations over the use of its data by the election consultancy Cambridge Analytica . Are you leaving Facebook? Share your concerns on privacy with us Read more The company has also come under the spotlight in the US after an investigation by the Observer, Channel 4 News and the New York Times revealed that 50m user profiles had been accessed and harvested for data. In a letter to Zuckerberg, the committee’s chair, Damian Collins, wrote that Facebook had been repeatedly asked about how companies acquired and held on to user data from its site, and whether data had been taken without users’ consent. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk and have been misleading to the committee,” he wrote. “It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process … Given your commitment at the start of the new year to ‘fixing’ Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you.” The committee said Facebook had failed to provide follow-up evidence after the last hearing and that this week’s revelations had raised new questions for the inquiry. On Wednesday it will take evidence from a former Facebook operations manager, Sandy Parakilas. The letter gave a deadline of 26 March for a response. How the story unfolded  In December 2016, while researching the US presidential election, Carole Cadwalladr came across data analytics company Cambridge Analytica, whose secretive manner and chequered track record belied its bland, academic-sounding name. Her initial investigations uncovered the role of US billionaire Robert Mercer in the US election campaign: his strategic “war” on mainstream media and his political campaign funding, some apparently linked to Brexit. She found the first indications that Cambridge Analytica might have used data processing methods that breached the Data Protection Act. That article prompted Britain’s Electoral Commission and the Information Commissioner’s Office to launch investigations whose remits include Cambridge Analytica’s use of data and its possible links to the EU referendum. These investigations are continuing, as is a wider ICO inquiry into the use of data in politics. While chasing the details and ramifications of complex manipulation of both data and funding law, Cadwalladr came under increasing attacks, both online and professionally, from key players. The Leave.EU campaign tweeted a doctored video that showed her being violently assaulted, and the Russian embassy wrote to the Observer to complain that her reporting was a “textbook example of bad journalism”. But the growing profile of her reports also gave whistleblowers confidence that they could trust her to not only understand their stories, but retell them clearly for a wide audience. Her network of sources and contacts grew to include not only former employees who regretted their work but academics, lawyers and others concerned about the impact on democracy of tactics employed by Cambridge Analytica and associates. Cambridge Analytica is now the subject of special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s probing of the company’s role in Donald Trump’s presidential election campaign. Investigations in the UK remain live. Was this helpful?  Thank you for your feedback. A White House spokesman said Donald Trump would welcome investigations into the breach. “The president believes that Americans’ privacy should be protected. You know, if Congress wants to look into the matter or other agencies want to look into the matter, we welcome that,” the deputy press secretary Raj Shah told Fox News. “Without knowing the specifics, it’s difficult to tell whether an individual should testify but we do support the privacy of American citizens.” Representatives of Facebook are expected to brief Senate and White House aides on Wednesday, and the US Federal Trade Commission is reported to be looking at whether it violated an agreement over its use of consumers’ personal data. The agreement was reached in 2011 after previous concerns about Facebook’s handling of privacy issues. The company issued a statement on Tuesday saying it was outraged at the developments. The statement said: “[CEO] Mark [Zuckerberg], [COO] Sheryl [Sandberg] and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue. “The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens.” The company’s stock market stock’s woes continued on Tuesday, as the share price dropped 3.5% to drop to around 17% below last month’s all-time high, The inquiries followed revelations of how data from Facebook was deployed by Cambridge Analytica (CA) without users’ consent, and of boasts by CA to undercover reporters about the role it could play in political campaigns. The UK’s information commissioner has announced her intention to investigate CA, but on Tuesday she was still awaiting a warrant to enter its central London offices. A Huffington Post reporter said he had seen about 10 crates of documents being removed from the building, which is shared with other tenants. The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) said it wasn’t responsible for removing any files. Crates filled with documents have been seen being removed from the same building as Cambridge Analytica's HQ. Their provenance cannot be verified. A delivery person did not answer questions, while a van driver said: "No comment". pic.twitter.com/mBPEYZxmQw March 20, 2018 The commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said she had also demanded that Facebook halt an data audit of CA which had commenced, saying it could prejudice her investigation. Cybersecurity consultants from Stroz Friedberg, who had been engaged by Facebook to do the audit, were at CA’s office in London on Monday evening when the ICO asked them to leave so the authorities could pursue their own investigation. Collins said it was extraordinary that Facebook’s investigators had been in the CA office, and he questioned their motives. How to protect your Facebook privacy – or delete yourself completely Read more “We were told this last night and I don’t think the information commissioner was aware of that at that time,” he told the BBC. “This is a matter for the authorities. Facebook sent in data analysts and lawyers who they appointed; what they intended to do there, who knows? “The concern would have been: were they removing information or evidence which could have been vital to the investigation? It’s right they stood down but it’s astonishing they were there in the first place.” In a statement on Tuesday, CA said it had been in touch with the Information Commissioner’s Office since February 2017, when it had hosted its team in its London office. “Since early last year we have subsequently cooperated with the ICO on multiple lines of inquiry, including most recently on the Facebook data and derivatives that we received from GSR, the research company that we engaged in good faith to legally supply data for research. “On this point we have offered to share with the ICO all the information that it asked for and for the ICO to attend our office voluntarily, subject to our agreeing the scope of the inspection.” 


[w811]  Facebook is having a really bad week . And it just got even worse for CEO Mark Zuckerberg. The British House of Commons has officially sent Zuck a letter asking him to come to London and testify about how he plans to “fix” Facebook. Best of luck with that, mate. The letter, which was just published to Twitter by technology reporters in the UK, explains that the government committee overseeing digital privacy had already heard from Facebook officials, but that those representatives from the social media company had been “misleading.” The UK now wants a high-level executive, preferably Zuckerberg himself, to go to London and testify about the “catastrophic failure” of Facebook’s handling of private user information. The letter reads: Dear Mr Zuckerberg Request for oral evidence Following material published in the UK Guardian and the New York Times over the past few days, the Committee would like to request that you appear before us to give oral evidence. As I said in my statement, the Committee has repeatedly asked Facebook about how companies acquire and hold on to user data from their site, and in particular about whether data had been taken without their consent. Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk, and have been misleading to the Committee. It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process. There is a strong public interest test regarding user protection. Accordingly we are sure you will understand the need for a representative from right at the top of the oganisation to address concerns. Given your committment at the start of the New Year to “fixing” Facebook, I hope that this representative will be you. We would like to receive your response by Monday 26 March. Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the letter. Update, 1:09pm: Facebook just sent us this statement from Paul Grewal, VP and Deputy General Counsel: We are in the process of conducting a comprehensive internal and external review as we work to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists. That is where our focus lies as we remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information. Advertisement The House of Commons will already be hearing from a former Facebook employee as early as tomorrow. Sandy Parakilas worked on the security team at the social media company and told the Guardian in an article published today that he tried to warn Facebook about the potential for data breaches. Parakilas paints a dark picture of an information gathering free-for-all by incredibly shady characters. “Once the data left Facebook servers there was not any control, and there was no insight into what was going on,” Parakilas told the Guardian . Facebook has come under increased scrutiny in the past few days after it was revealed that Cambridge Analytica used the data of over 50 million Facebook users to exploit their fears and launch a sophisticated propaganda campaign on behalf of Donald Trump’s team. Advertisement And to make things even worse for Facebook, it also came to light just yesterday that Cambridge Analytica engages in some pretty dirty business practices. Britain’s Channel Four ran a 20-minute documentary with undercover footage of the company’s CEO admitting that the company orchestrates bribes of politicians with the explicit purpose of filming those encounters and releasing the footage online. The company’s CEO, Alexander Nix, also admits to bringing sex workers from Ukraine into various countries in order to entice government officials with sex. Those encounters are also filmed and used to discredit candidates around the world, Nix says in the video. And if that wasn’t enough, the rumor mill is now swirling with reports that Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer, is resigning over disagreements with other top executives at the media company. Specifically, Stamos is reportedly upset that Facebook isn’t being more upfront about the ways its platform was used to manipulate American voters during the 2016 election. Advertisement But not so fast, says Stamos. He swears he’s not going anywhere. Or, at least, that’s what he’s kind of implying. Stamos, while not exactly denying the fact that he might be leaving in the summer , says that he’s “fully engaged” at Facebook. He does admit that his role at the company has shifted. The New York Times reports that Stamos wanted to quit but was “persuaded to stay” until August. Top leadership at Facebook apparently thought it would look bad to have Stamos jump ship while the ship was on fire. Which isn’t altogether wrong. Facebook’s stock price plummeted yesterday on news that the company is imploding. And Facebook plans to hold a company-wide meeting today to discuss the shitshow. But we’ll see if it can pull out of this nosedive. Advertisement With Zuck himself totally silent, it should be interesting to see how he responds to a request to testify in the UK. So far, the US hasn’t formally asked top social media executives to testify, though that could be changing. Democratic Senator Mark Warner tweeted that he’d like to see Zuck and other CEOs testify in front of Congress. With the shit truly hitting the fan, the days of hiding behind lawyers on Capitol Hill may be over for people like Mark Zuckerberg. 


[w812]   Cambridge Analytica may be guilty of hype. But data mining poisons our politics  Cambridge Analytica caught in undercover sting boasting about entrapping politicians - video It’s exactly the sort of conversation about politics that one would hope did not exist. Two suits, in a swanky restaurant, blithely boasting about exploiting fears buried so deep inside our subconscious that most of us don’t even know we have them; claiming that, for the right price, they can creep invisibly into your head. Cambridge Analytica boasts of dirty tricks to swing elections Read more Channel 4’s sting, which showed executives at the digital marketing firm Cambridge Analytica telling undercover reporters what on earth it is they actually do, was just the final piece of this particular jigsaw. My indefatigable Observer colleague Carole Cadwalladr put in the hard yards, over months of investigating the firm that boasts of using a combination of data and behavioural science to laser-target voters and thus help put Donald Trump in the White House . But until now it’s been difficult for many people to visualise how the unauthorised use of our personal data, or the use of social media profiles to manipulate our votes, looks in practice. It sounds bad, obviously. We clearly should care. But it’s all so complicated, and life is busy. The risks of letting tech giants plough through our holiday snaps seem abstract and remote compared with the instant gratification of social media likes and shares and gossip. Well, it’s not so remote now. Facebook had $36bn wiped off its shares on Monday following Cadwalladr’s revelation that personal data from 50 million American Facebook users, obtained by an academic using privileged access granted for research purposes, was then passed on to Cambridge Analytica. And now we know what sort of hands it ended up in. When approached by undercover reporters, posing as wealthy clients seeking to get chosen politicians elected in Sri Lanka, Cambridge Analytica executives suggested all sorts of dubious miracles might be possible. Maybe a rival could be made a financial offer he couldn’t refuse, with the resulting incriminating film posted online. Or maybe some beautiful women could be sent to his house. But arguably more chilling was a conversation about just how deep its psychological profiling goes. Christopher Wylie , the whistleblower Cadwalladr worked with, has said the company used data harvested from prospective voters to “build models to exploit what we knew about them, and target their inner demons”. On camera we saw what that might mean: talk of operating subliminally, exploiting fears where “you didn’t know that was a fear until you saw something that just evoked that reaction”. Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, one of those caught on camera, now insists his company was indulging in “a certain amount of hyperbole” – either exaggerating to impress the client, or perhaps even quietly probing their intentions. Like lobbyists, his company seems to spend half its time telling clients of its power to influence elections and the other half telling journalists those powers are wildly overstated. Data mining is a fast-growing business operating largely unseen on the fringe of politics But at best, his company looks guilty of hype, and at worst, the months of legal threats and denials over Cadwalladr’s stories – not to mention the online abuse she got from people such as Arron Banks of the unofficial pro-Brexit campaign Leave.EU, said to have consulted Cambridge Analytica – stink. None of this means Britain would have voted remain or Hillary Clinton would be president if it hadn’t been for these pesky kids, just as “corporate lobbying” can’t explain every poor government decision. Voters’ anger was real, and this scandal doesn’t absolve us from asking the hard questions about why so many responded to extreme messages. Since Cambridge Analytica’s business model is arguably just a supercharged version of something political parties have done for years – identifying potential supporters, compiling detailed pictures of what makes them tick, then tailor-making messages to different groups depending on what they want to hear – it may also turn out that all sides have been busily scraping data behind our backs. But this feels like a tipping point. Britain’s information commissioner has a warrant to search servers. The Commons select committee inquiry into fake news will recall Nix, questioning whether he “deliberately misled” them in recent testimony on the use of the Facebook data, and seek fresh evidence from Facebook. The latter’s falling share price meanwhile reflects not just this scandal but a string of them, including its role in inadvertently spreading fake news. There is a growing sense that even if users don’t take fright, regulators are losing patience. And so they should. Like lobbying back in the days of cash-for-questions, data mining is a fast-growing business operating largely unseen on the fringe of politics, and while it can be used to respectable ends, it’s vulnerable to abuse. It clearly has the capacity to undermine our democratic process, even if it hasn’t done so yet. We should act before it’s too late.      

[w813]  

[w814] Facebook Faces Growing Pressure Over Data and Privacy Inquiries  Federal regulators and state prosecutors are opening investigations into Facebook. Politicians in the United States and Europe are calling for its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to testify before them. Investors have cut the value of the social networking giant by about $50 billion in the past two days. They are all focused on the same thing: whether Facebook mishandled users’ data. Facebook has built its highly profitable social network off its users, selling advertisements based on their ages, interests and other details. But the scrutiny over the company’s vast trove of personal data — following a report that a political consulting firm had improperly obtained information of 50 million users — is taking direct aim at that lucrative formula. “Investors are reacting to fears of regulation and the consequences of regulation,” said Brian Wieser, a senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group. “The scale of errors can only lead one to conclude these are systemic problems.” So far, most of the social network’s top executives have been silent. Mr. Zuckerberg, its founder, and Sheryl Sandberg, his top deputy, have not made any public statements in recent days. The pair did not appear at an employee meeting on Tuesday in Menlo Park, Calif., where the company is based. At the meeting, employees asked questions about the continuing internal investigation into the use of Facebook data by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. The firm, which was tied to President Trump’s 2016 campaign, used the data to target messages to voters. The meeting, which included Facebook’s deputy counsel, Paul Grewal, largely focused on the steps that Facebook was taking to ensure its data could no longer be misused by independent researchers, according to Facebook employees in attendance. Mr. Zuckerberg was expected to address employees on Friday, when the company holds an all-hands meeting. The company has faced internal dissent over its broader role in spreading disinformation during the presidential campaign and its response to it. The tensions have prompted the planned departure of Alex Stamos , Facebook’s chief security officer, who plans to leave in August. The pressure on Facebook has been building for years. It started in the European Union, where regulators have taken an aggressive attitude toward Facebook and other American technology giants for their sway over the region’s 500 million people. The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. Europe has approved a new privacy law, which takes effect in May, that will give users of Facebook, Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them. After the 2016 presidential campaign, lawmakers at home joined the chorus of critics, citing the company’s role in Russia’s disinformation efforts. The social network was one of the top tools used by Russians to spread false news, and the company’s executives have struggled to explain what happened and how they would prevent foreign interference in the future. The Cambridge Analytica revelations have forced Facebook to scramble to assuage fresh concerns by regulators and lawmakers. The company is sending its representatives to Capitol Hill and arranging conversations with state attorneys general to try to answer questions about how the firm collected the information of Facebook users. The social networking giant is also facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission, which is looking into whether Facebook violated an agreement with the agency, according to a person with knowledge of the inquiry. The F.T.C. investigation is connected to a settlement the agency reached with Facebook in 2011 after finding that the company had told users that third-party apps on the social media site, like games, would not be allowed to access their data. But the apps, the agency found, were able to obtain almost all personal information about a user. The current investigation has parallels. The information on the 50 million users was harvested in 2014 by an outside researcher, Aleksandr Kogan. Mr. Kogan, a professor at Cambridge University, paid users small sums to take a personality quiz and download an app, which collected private information from their profiles and from those of their friends. Facebook allowed that sort of data collection at the time. Then, Mr. Kogan gave the information to Cambridge Analytica, a firm founded by Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House political adviser, and Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor. Passing the information to a third party violated Facebook’s policies, the company said last week. “There are all sorts of obligations under the consent decree that may not have been honored here,” said David Vladeck, a former director of consumer protection at the F.T.C. The company could face fines of $40,000 a day per violation if the agency finds that Facebook broke the agreement. “We are aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating,” an F.T.C. spokeswoman said in a statement on Tuesday. “We take any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously.” Facebook said it expected to receive questions from the F.T.C. related to potential violations of the 2011 consent decree. “We remain strongly committed to protecting people’s information,” Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer, Rob Sherman, said in a statement. “We appreciate the opportunity to answer questions the F.T.C. may have.” The F.T.C. inquiry is just one piece of the regulatory backlash. On Tuesday, the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, announced that he was joining the Massachusetts attorney general, Maura Healey, in an investigation into whether Facebook had failed to protect the privacy of users in those states. New Jersey’s attorney general announced a similar investigation. Mr. Schneiderman and Ms. Healey sent a letter to Facebook on Tuesday that demanded records of the communications between the company and Cambridge Analytica. “Consumers have a right to know how their information is used — and companies like Facebook have a fundamental responsibility to protect their users’ personal information,” Mr. Schneiderman said. “Today’s demand letter is the first step in our joint investigation to get to the bottom of what happened.” There have also been growing calls for the top leadership at Facebook to appear before American and British lawmakers to testify about the company and Cambridge Analytica. Senators Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, and John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, have asked the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to hold a hearing. Republican leaders of the Senate Commerce Committee, organized by John Thune of South Dakota, wrote a letter on Monday to Mr. Zuckerberg demanding answers to questions about how the data had been collected and if users were able to control the misuse of data by third parties. “It’s time for Mr. Zuckerberg and the other C.E.O.s to testify before Congress,” Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said on Tuesday. “The American people deserve answers about social media manipulation in the 2016 election.” Facebook staff members were scheduled to brief the office of Mr. Warner, the top Democrat on the Intelligence committee, and the offices of members of other committees, including Commerce, this week. “The possibility that Facebook has either not been transparent with consumers or has not been able to verify that third-party app developers are transparent with consumers is troubling,” Mr. Thune said in his letter. On Tuesday morning, a committee within the British Parliament sent a letter to Mr. Zuckerberg that asked him to appear before the panel to answer questions on the company’s connection to Cambridge Analytica. The president of the European Parliament also requested an appearance by Mr. Zuckerberg. “The committee has repeatedly asked Facebook about how companies acquire and hold on to user data from their site, and in particular about whether data had been taken without their consent,” wrote Damian Collins, chairman of the British committee. “Your officials’ answers have consistently understated this risk, and have been misleading to the committee.” 

[w815]  Facebook probed by FTC, to meet with lawmakers  As data misuse scandal grows, Facebook investigated by FTC, meets with lawmakers The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over the possible misuse of data of 50 million users. As data misuse scandal grows, Facebook investigated by FTC, meets with lawmakers The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over the possible misuse of data of 50 million users. Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://usat.ly/2prAPck Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs As data misuse scandal grows, Facebook investigated by FTC, meets with lawmakers p402_premium class is utilized by Google Consumer Surveys CLOSE Amid the Cambridge Analytica scandal. The Federal Trade Commission is probing Facebook over potential misuse of the personal information of as many as 50 million Facebook users by Trump-connected data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook is also being investigated by New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman and Massachusetts Attorney General Healey, who said they sent a demand letter Tuesday. And Facebook officials met with U.S. lawmakers Tuesday and are scheduled to meet with them again Wednesday to brief them on Cambridge Analytica. The social media giant said Friday it suspended Cambridge Analytica from operating on its platforms as it investigated whether it failed to delete information it received through an academic researcher. Senate Commerce Committee Chairman John Thune (R-S.D.) and other committee leaders — as well as leaders in the U.K. and Europe  — have asked for answers from Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg  after reports in The New York Times and T he Observer of London alleged that the data , which included Facebook profiles of more than 50 million users obtained without their permission, was used to target voters during the 2016 presidential election. "Consumers have a right to know how their information is used — and companies like Facebook have a fundamental responsibility to protect their users’ personal information," Schneiderman, New York's Attorney General, said in a statement. Privacy activists called for the federal watchdog to investigate whether the improper handling of Facebook users' data violated a consent decree with the FTC. A Facebook official familiar with the situation said the FTC is seeking information from Facebook and the company expects to receive a letter from the agency soon. The FTC is looking into whether the incident is a violation of a 2011 consent decree giving privacy protections to Facebook users' data, Bloomberg reported Tuesday, also citing a person familiar with the situation. The agency would not confirm that an investigation was underway. “We are aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating," said an FTC statement sent to USA TODAY. "We take any allegations of violations of our consent decrees very seriously.” Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Today, @MassAGO Healey and I sent a letter to Facebook demanding more information regarding Cambridge Analytica. It is the first step in our joint investigation to get to the bottom of what happened. https://t.co/PHr8HVXtXV pic.twitter.com/zNehe9Wv4D — Eric Schneiderman (@AGSchneiderman) March 20, 2018 Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, known as EPIC, says the Cambridge Analytica incident is a textbook violation of the settlement Facebook reached with the FTC in 2011 which required that Facebook users give permission before their data was shared beyond the privacy limits they set on Facebook. "EPIC and many consumer privacy organizations worked hard to get that order in place. It prohibited precisely what happened. But the FTC failed to enforce the order and we now live with the consequences," Rotenberg said. On Tuesday, EPIC, the Center for Digital Democracy and a coalition of consumer groups sent a letter urging the FTC to investigate a violation of the consent decree that states Facebook must get consumers' permission before changing the way it shares data and before enacting changes that "override their privacy preferences." "The FTC has an obligation to the American public to ensure that companies comply with existing consent orders. It is unconscionable that the FTC allowed this unprecedented disclosure of Americans’ personal data to occur," the letter said. Cambridge Analytics, which provided services to the Trump 2016 presidential campaign, got the user data from Global Science Research, which collected the data from a personality quiz app accessed through Facebook. The data was supposed to destroyed, but was passed on to Cambridge Analytica in violation of Facebook’s rules. But Cambridge Analytica still has most of the data, according to the report in  The New York Times , and 30 million of the profiles had enough information to match users to other records and build profiles of them. "It’s long overdue that lawmakers from both parties stopped giving Facebook and the other commercial digital ad companies a free 'collect all our data' pass with our personal information," said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a longtime critic of Facebook. Concerns about the situation led to a continued decline in Facebook's stock price Tuesday. Facebook ( FB ) shares closed Tuesday down 4% to $168.15. Shares fell nearly 7% on Monday, the stock's worst drop in four years , according to FactSet. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg lost almost $5 billion as the company's market cap fell more than $36 billion to $501.3 billion. 


[w818]   Kathy Sheridan: Hijacking of US electorate has gone under the radar 

[w819] Facebook 'outraged' by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica  Facebook ‘outraged’ by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica   Facebook ‘outraged’ by misuse of data by Cambridge Analytica British firm linked to Trump campaign suspends chief executive as lawmakers demand answers from social media giant over 'catastrophic' breach of user data    In this photo taken on March 25, 2015 Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at the F8 summit in San Francisco, California. (AFP Photo/Josh Edelson) Facebook said Tuesday the company was “outraged” after being “deceived” over the misuse of data by political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which improperly harvested information on 50 million users. A company statement appeared to place the blame for the incident on the British-based firm linked to US President Donald Trump, which according to Facebook violated terms of the social network by misusing data from an academic researcher. 		 “The entire company is outraged we were deceived. We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information and will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” the statement said. 							 									Get The Times of Israel's Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories 								 									Free Sign Up 								 It added that chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and their teams “are working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.” Later on Tuesday, Cambridge Analytica suspended its chief executive Alexander Nix after recordings of him emerged boasting about the company’s expansive role Trump’s presidential campaign, claiming it did all its research, analytics as well as digital and television campaigns. In the undercover filming, captured by Britain’s Channel 4 News, Nix outlines the use of a secret self-destructing email system. “There’s no evidence, there’s no paper trail, there’s nothing,” he said of the tool, which deletes emails two hours after they have been read. Nix also slights US representatives on the House Intelligence Committee to whom he gave evidence last year, claiming its Democrats are motivated by “sour grapes” and Republicans asked few questions. “They’re politicians, they’re not technical. They don’t understand how it works,” he was caught on camera telling an undercover reporter. In this March 15, 2013, file photo, a Facebook employee walks past a sign at Facebook headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu) In the recording Nix revealed that Cambridge Analytica employed Israeli intelligence gathering firms to aid their efforts. “We have two projects at the moment, which involve doing deep, deep, depth research on the opposition and providing source… really damaging source material, that we can decide how to deploy in the course of the campaign,” Nix told an undercover reporter posing as a Sri Lankan businessman. “We use some British companies, we use some Israeli companies,” he said. “From Israel, very effective in intelligence gathering.” Announcing Nix’s suspension, Cambridge Analytica’s board said Nix would stand aside immediately pending an investigation into the various allegations. “In the view of the Board, Mr. Nix’s recent comments secretly recorded by Channel 4 and other allegations do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation,” the company said in a statement. Cambridge Analytica has denied claims it harvested data from up to 50 million Facebook users as part of its work for Trump’s election campaign. But the row has plunged Facebook into a major scandal, facing investigations on both sides of the Atlantic over its use of personal data, while its share price has been hit. A British parliamentary committee called on Zuckerberg Tuesday to personally explain to them what happened with “this catastrophic failure of process.” Committee chairman Damian Collins, who is leading an investigation into fake news, said officials at the firm had “consistently understated” the risk of data being taken from users without consent. Zuckerberg has also been invited to address the European Parliament, its president Antonio Tajani said. “Facebook needs to clarify before the representatives of 500 million Europeans that personal data is not being used to manipulate democracy,” he tweeted. The parliament and the European Commission, the 28-nation EU executive, have already called for an urgent investigation into the scandal. US lawmakers have also called on Zuckerberg to appear before Congress, along with the chief executives of Twitter and Google. 


[w820] Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica&apos;s collection of Facebook data, former employee says  Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's early efforts to collect troves of Facebook data to build profiles of American voters, a former employee of the data-science firm said Tuesday.   Former presidential adviser Steve Bannon speaks March 10, 2018, in Lille, France. Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's early efforts to collect troves of Facebook data to build profiles of American voters, a former employee of the data-science firm said Tuesday.   (Sylvain Lefevre / Getty Images) Conservative strategist Steve Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's early efforts to collect troves of Facebook data as part of an ambitious program to build detailed profiles of millions of American voters, a former employee of the data-science firm said Tuesday. The 2014 effort was part of a high-tech form of voter persuasion touted by the company, which under Bannon identified and tested the power of anti-establishment messages that later would emerge as central themes in President Donald Trump 's campaign speeches, according to Chris Wylie, who left the company at the end of that year. Among the messages tested were "drain the swamp" and "deep state," he said. Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Trump's 2016 campaign, is now facing questions about alleged unethical practices, including charges that the firm improperly handled the data of tens of millions of Facebook users. On Tuesday, the company's board announced that it was suspending its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after British television released secret recordings that appeared to show him talking about entrapping political opponents. More than three years before he served as Trump's chief political strategist, Bannon helped launch Cambridge Analytica with the financial backing of the wealthy Mercer family as part of a broader effort to create a populist power base. Earlier this year, the Mercers cut ties with Bannon after he was quoted making incendiary comments about Trump and his family. In an interview Tuesday with The Washington Post at his lawyer's London office, Wylie said that Bannon — while he was a top executive at Cambridge Analytica and head of Breitbart News — was deeply involved in the company's strategy and approved spending nearly $1 million to acquire data, including Facebook profiles, in 2014. "We had to get Bannon to approve everything at this point. Bannon was Alexander Nix's boss," said Wylie, who was Cambridge Analytica's research director. "Alexander Nix didn't have the authority to spend that much money without approval." Bannon, who served on the company's board, did not respond to a request for comment. He served as vice president and secretary of Cambridge Analytica from June 2014 to August 2016, when he became chief executive of Trump's campaign, according to his publicly filed financial disclosure. In 2017, he joined Trump in the White House as his chief strategist.  Late on Friday, Facebook made an unexpected announcement: The data firm Cambridge Analytica, hyped as integral to President Donald Trump 's election, was suspended from the social network for using data collected improperly from Facebook users. It is a complicated issue that many people might have... Bannon received more than $125,000 in consulting fees from Cambridge Analytica in 2016 and owned "membership units" in the company worth between $1 million and $5 million, according to his financial disclosure. Cambridge Analytica did not respond to a request for comment about Bannon's role. It is unclear whether Bannon knew how Cambridge Analytica was obtaining the data, which allegedly was collected through an app that was portrayed as a tool for psychological research but was then transferred to the company. Facebook has said that information was improperly shared and that it requested the deletion of the data in 2015. Cambridge Analytica officials said that they had done so, but Facebook said it received reports several days ago that the data was not deleted. Wylie said that both Bannon and Rebekah Mercer, whose father, Robert Mercer, financed the company, participated in conference calls in 2014 in which plans to collect Facebook data were discussed, although Wylie acknowledged that it was not clear they knew the details of how the collection took place. Bannon "approved the data-collection scheme we were proposing," Wylie said. The Mercers did not respond to a request for comment. The data and analyses that Cambridge Analytica generated in this time provided discoveries that would later form the emotionally charged core of Trump's presidential platform, said Wylie, whose disclosures in news reports over the past several days have rocked both his onetime employer and Facebook. he head of Trump-affiliated data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica has been suspended, while government authorities are bearing down on both the firm and Facebook over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users to manipulate elections. Cambridge's board of directors suspended... "Trump wasn't in our consciousness at that moment; this was well before he became a thing," Wylie said. "He wasn't a client or anything." The year before Trump announced his presidential bid, the data firm already had found a high level of alienation among young, white Americans with a conservative bent. In focus groups arranged to test messages for the 2014 midterms, these voters responded to calls for building a new wall to block the entry of illegal immigrants, to reforms intended the "drain the swamp" of Washington's entrenched political community and to thinly veiled forms of racism toward African-Americans called "race realism," he recounted. The firm also tested views of Russian President Vladimir Putin . "The only foreign thing we tested was Putin," he said. "It turns out, there's a lot of Americans who really like this idea of a really strong authoritarian leader and people were quite defensive in focus groups of Putin's invasion of Crimea." The controversy over Cambridge Analytica's data collection erupted in recent days amid news reports that an app created by a Cambridge University psychologist, Aleksandr Kogan, accessed extensive personal data of 50 million Facebook users. The app, called thisisyourdigitallife, was downloaded by 270,000 users. Facebook's policy, which has since changed, allowed Kogan to also collect data — including names, home towns, religious affiliations and likes — on all of the Facebook "friends" of those users. Kogan shared that data with Cambridge Analytica for its growing database on American voters. Facebook on Friday banned the parent company of Cambridge Analytica, Kogan and Wylie for improperly sharing that data. The Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook to determine whether the social media platform violated a 2011 consent decree governing its privacy policies when it allowed the data collection. And Wylie plans to testify to Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee as part of their investigation of Russian interference in the election, including possible ties to the Trump campaign. Meanwhile, Britain's Channel 4 News aired a video Tuesday in which Nix was shown boasting about his work for Trump. He seemed to highlight his firm's secrecy, at one point stressing the need to set up a special email account that self-destructs all messages so that "there's no evidence, there's no paper trail, there's nothing." A British parliamentary committee on Tuesday summoned Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to answer questions on fake news as authorities step up efforts to determine whether data has been improperly used to influence elections. The request comes amid reports that a U.K.-based company allegedly used Facebook... The company said in a statement that Nix's comments "do not represent the values or operations of the firm and his suspension reflects the seriousness with which we view this violation." Nix could not be reached for comment. Cambridge Analytica was set up as a U.S. affiliate of British-based SCL Group, which had a wide range of governmental clients globally, in addition to its political work. Wylie said that Bannon and Nix first met in 2013, the same year that Wylie — a young data whiz with some political experience in Britain and Canada — was working for SCL Group. Bannon and Wylie met soon after and hit it off in conversations about culture, elections and how to spread ideas using technology. Bannon, Wylie, Nix, Rebekah Mercer and Robert Mercer met in Rebekah Mercer's Manhattan apartment in the fall of 2013, striking a deal in which Robert Mercer would fund the creation of Cambridge Analytica with $10 million, with the hope of shaping the congressional elections a year later, according to Wylie. Robert Mercer, in particular, seemed transfixed by the group's plans to harness and analyze data, he recalled. The Mercers were keen to create a U.S.-based business to avoid bad optics and violating U.S. campaign finance rules, Wylie said. "They wanted to create an American brand," he said. The young company struggled to quickly deliver on its promises, Wylie said. Widely available information from commercial data brokers provided people's names, addresses, shopping habits and more, but failed to distinguish on more fine-grained matters of personality that might affect political views. Cambridge Analytica initially worked for 2016 Republican candidate Sen. Ted Cruz , Texas, who was backed by the Mercers. The Trump campaign had rejected early overtures to hire Cambridge Analytica, and Trump himself said in May 2016 that he "always felt" that the use of voter data was "overrated." After Cruz faded, the Mercers switched their allegiance to Trump and pitched their services to Trump's digital director, Brad Parscale. The company's hiring was approved by Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who was informally helping to manage the campaign with a focus on digital strategy. Kushner said in an interview with Forbes magazine that the campaign "found that Facebook and digital targeting were the most effective ways to reach the audiences. ... We brought in Cambridge Analytica." Kushner said he "built" a data hub for the campaign "which nobody knew about, until towards the end." Kushner's spokesman and lawyer both declined to comment Tuesday. Two weeks before Election Day, Nix told a Post reporter at the company's New York City office that his company could "determine the personality of every single adult in the United States of America." The claim was widely questioned, and the Trump campaign later said that it didn't rely on psychographic data from Cambridge Analytica. Instead, the campaign said that it used a variety of other digital information to identify probable supporters. Parscale said in a Post interview in October 2016 that he had not "opened the hood" on Cambridge Analytica's methodology, and said he got much of his data from the Republican National Committee. Parscale declined to comment Tuesday. He has previously said that the Trump campaign did not use any psychographic data from Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica's parent company, SCL Group, has an ongoing contract with the State Department's Global Engagement Center. The company was paid almost $500,000 to interview people overseas to understand the mindset of Islamist militants as part of an effort to counter their online propaganda and block recruits. Heather Nauert, the acting undersecretary for public diplomacy, said Tuesday that the contract was signed in November 2016, under the Obama administration, and has not expired yet. In public records, the contract is dated in February 2017, and the reason for the discrepancy was not clear. Nauert said that the State Department had signed other contracts with SCL Group in the past. 

[w821]  Facebook employees on Mark Zuckerberg Cambridge Analytica silence  Some Facebook employees are angry that Mark Zuckerberg has ghosted in the middle of this scandal      Facebook held a meeting Tuesday for employees to ask questions about the Cambridge Analytica scandal. But CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg were MIA. Some employees are taking to the anonymous chat app Blind to commiserate and discuss the situation. As the latest news rages about how Facebook was exploited to manipulate voters by a company working for Donald Trump's presidential campaign and for the Brexit vote, frustration is growing within Facebook's employee ranks. Facebook staffers want their CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, to speak up and defend the company. He has been noticeably absent on the issue . He hasn't posted on his own Facebook account. He didn't lead an internal company meeting that was held Tuesday. He has made no statements to the press. Ditto for the company's other famous executive, Sheryl Sandberg, who has also been radio silent on the matter. This firestorm involves a whistle-blower from a company called Cambridge Analytica who said the firm took data from 50 million Facebook users under false pretenses to target voters with ads and misinformation. Facebook says it was duped by the firm, which it said promised to delete the data after Facebook discovered its activities back in 2015. Advertisement Many Facebook employees understand and are on board with the company's defense. Plus they are used to news reports about some scandal or another at the company and believe that the news media can be overly dramatic or mischaracterize things. "Everybody at Facebook in first year gets immunized to stories about Facebook — or they quit," one former Facebook employee told us. "But there are plenty of people irked about this, about Facebook's silence. They want Mark to go on TV." 'Is this how the downfall of Myspace happened?' Employees were told their questions would be answered at an internal meeting, but neither Zuckerberg nor Sandberg participated in that meeting. The meeting was led by a Facebook lawyer, Paul Grewal. Many employees are also engaging in some dark humor about it. In the anonymous employee chat app Blind, one Facebook employee posted a message full of siren and fire emojis, saying, "Those are my thoughts." Another employee called the situation "serious," but a third one joked, "Is this how the downfall of Myspace happened? I'm just trying to figure out how worried I should actually be." Blind makes sure the people using the app are employees by validating their work email addresses. In fact, employees have also been active on Facebook's internal messaging groups, including one called "Wait What? Ask PR." Employees are going there to ask questions about Cambridge Analytica as well as Facebook's role in the 2016 US elections and Russian election interference. "We have a very open culture at Facebook and welcome feedback through all of our internal channels," Vanessa Chan, Facebook's director of communications, told Business Insider. The upshot is, employees want to believe, and do believe, their company's explanation that it is not complicit with any bad actors. But many don't understand why Zuckerberg and Sandberg are ghosts, allowing the world to believe that the people of Facebook are doing terrible things. As one former employee described, "Why are you guys letting us get grilled?" The billionaire cofounder of WhatsApp, which Facebook acquired for $19 billion, just tweeted 'deletefacebook' 

[w822] Steve Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's 2014 mining of Facebook data: report         Steve Bannon oversaw Cambridge Analytica's 2014 mining of Facebook data: report     Former Trump strategist Steve Bannon oversaw the early collection of Facebook user data for Cambridge Analytica in 2014, the Washington Post reported late Tuesday. The 2014 effort apparently tested various anti-establishment messages that later appeared in the Trump camp's lexicon, including "drain the swamp" and "deep state," the Post said. Bannon helped launch Cambridge Analytica in 2013 with the financial backing of conservative mega-donor Robert Mercer. Bannon was a top executive for the company until he joined the Trump campaign in August 2016. In an interview with the Post, whistleblower Chris Wylie, a former Cambridge Analytica employee, said Bannon was deeply involved with the company's data-gathering efforts. "We had to get Bannon to approve everything at this point. Bannon was Alexander Nix's boss," Wylie said of the company's CEO, who was suspended earlier Tuesday. Cambridge Analytica allegedly mined data from 50 million Facebook users without their consent for use during the 2016 presidential campaign. Facebook Inc.                                shares have tumbled almost 10% this week.   


[w823]  Facebook to investigate handling of leaked data of 50 million American users to Trump's consultants Facebook’s fight against misinformation in the News Feed: As much a human problem as Facebook's      Facebook to investigate handling of leaked data of 50 million American users to Trump's consultants   Facebook announced on 19 March that it has hired a digital forensics firm to investigate the handling of data on millions of Americans leaked to a consulting firm working on Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Representational image. Reuters. The move by Facebook came amid an onslaught of criticism after reports that British firm Cambridge Analytica harvested personal data from the profiles of 50 million users of the social network without their knowledge or consent. (Also Read:   Facebook, Cambridge Analytica and the alleged 'data breach': Here's all you need to know ) A Facebook statement said the forensics firm Stroz Friedberg would "conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica," and that the company had agreed to comply and provide access to its servers and systems. Facebook said University of Cambridge psychologist Aleksandr Kogan, who developed the app used to harvest user data, also agreed to cooperate. It added that Christopher Wylie, a Canadian data analytics expert who worked with Kogan and who revealed the data leak to media, had declined to cooperate with the audit. "This is part of a comprehensive internal and external review that we are conducting to determine the accuracy of the claims that the Facebook data in question still exists," the California social network giant said. It noted that the parties involved had certified to Facebook the data in question had been destroyed, but said that "if this data still exists, it would be a grave violation of Facebook's policies and an unacceptable violation of trust and the commitments these groups made." Facebook says its terms of service were violated when Kogan "lied" and used the results of his personality quiz to pass on data to Cambridge Analytica, which helped in Trump's 2016 campaign. "We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people's information," Facebook said. "We also want to be clear that today when developers create apps that ask for certain information from people, we conduct a robust review to identify potential policy violations and to assess whether the app has a legitimate use for the data. We actually reject a significant number of apps through this process." 


[w824] 

[w825]  Whistleblower says Steve Bannon was at the heart of Cambridge Analytica’s data collection operation.  Whistleblower Says Steve Bannon Was at the Heart of Cambridge Analytica’s Data Collection Operation        Steve Bannon was a part of the Cambridge Analytica team for the early days and signed off on its data acquisition, whistleblower Chris Wylie says. Sylvain Lefevre/Getty Images  British data firm Cambridge Analytica is currently under fire on multiple continents for its methods , namely using data illegitimately collected from Facebook users in order to create psychological profiles of some 50 million American voters. For some perspective, if that 50 million number holds, it would account for more than a quarter of the votes cast on election day in 2016. Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by almost three million votes with nearly 63 million votes. The London-based firm linked up with the Donald Trump during his presidential campaign, but former Trump campaign chief and White House adviser Steve Bannon was involved with the company long before the Trump campaign has morphed from theoretical nightmare to an actual one. The Washington Post reported Tuesday that Bannon, who was then the head of Breitbart News with a billionaire patron in Robert Mercer, was deeply influential in the early formation of Cambridge Analytica and signed off on its acquisition of the dodgy data.   From June 2014 until August 2016, when Bannon joined the Trump campaign, the sudden Trump confidante served as the vice president and secretary of Cambridge Analytica. Bannon also served on the company’s board and owned a portion of the company estimated to be worth between $1 million and $5 million. Former Cambridge Analytica research director Chris Wylie, who has over the last week acted as a whistleblower divulging the internal functioning of the company, told the Post that Bannon was “deeply involved in the company’s strategy and approved spending nearly $1 million to acquire data, including Facebook profiles, in 2014.”  “We had to get Bannon to approve everything at this point. Bannon was Alexander Nix’s boss,” Wylie told the Post. “Alexander Nix didn’t have the authority to spend that much money without approval.” That puts Bannon squarely in the timeframe where the upstart data company was trying to build its trove in order to construct a database to target voters. Cambridge Analytica has claimed innocence and ignorance of how the data was collected that allowed it to build voter profiles and, the Post notes, it’s not clear if Bannon knew how individuals’ personal data was obtained. So far the brunt of the criticism has been directed at Russian researcher Aleksandr Kogan , who created the app that was used to scrap the data of millions of Facebook users. Kogan told CNN Tuesday he didn’t believe he was violating Facebook’s data policy at the time and relied on the assurances of Chris Wylie at Cambridge Analytica. 

[w826] 

[w827] Congress turns up heat on Facebook after allegations of data harvesting  Congress turns up heat on Facebook after allegations of data harvesting  Congress is ratcheting up political pressure on Facebook after reports that a political data analytics firm employed by President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign received personal data and information from up to 50 million profiles on the popular social networking site. Lawmakers involved in congressional investigations into Russian election interference have renewed interest in the platform, calling for top company leaders to testify on Capitol Hill and more scrutiny of safeguards meant to protect user data. “I think it’s time for the CEO, Mr. [Mark] Zuckerberg, and other top officials to come and testify and not tell part of the story, but tell the whole story of their involvement -- not only with the Trump campaign but their ability to have their platform misused by the Russians,” Sen. Mark Warner , D-Va., the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, told ABC News. Trump-linked analytics firm Cambridge Analytica used stolen data, ex-employee says Stephen Colbert tackles stolen data scandal: 'The one time I actually wanted a Facebook alert' “These tech platforms .... need to be more forthcoming or Washington is going to start imposing rules and regulations that may not fit,” he warned. Sens. Amy Klobuchar , D-Minn., and John Kennedy, R-La., members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, wrote to chairman Chuck Grassley requesting a hearing with social media company CEO’s, including Zuckerberg. Facebook letter from Senate Judiciary Committee 3.19.2018 by ABC News Politics on Scribd On Saturday, The New York Times and The Observer of London reported that the data firm, Cambridge Analytica, mined data from millions of Facebook users -- largely without permission -- through an app created by a Russian-American psychologist, with the goal of using the data to create voter profiles and craft political messages. Facebook did not publicly acknowledge the possible data breach until the report surfaced over the weekend, and did not notify users that their information had been obtained by a third party. Cambridge Analytica has denied improperly obtaining any data, said they destroyed the unauthorized data as soon as they learned of it and said none of the information was used in its work 2016 presidential campaign work. On Monday, Facebook announced that it had hired a digital forensics firm, Stroz Friedberg, to audit Cambridge Analytica and sweep the firm’s servers and systems to confirm that the tranche of Facebook data had been destroyed after acknowledging reports that the data may still exist. “We are moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims. We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information,” the company said in a statement. Facebook has turned over records to investigators with special counsel Robert Mueller ’s team and the company has said it is cooperating. Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, has invited Christopher Wylie, the former Cambridge Analytica contractor who first spoke with The Times and The Observer, to appear for an interview with his staff. He said Democrats have also invited the Russian-American researcher Alexandr Kogan, to appear for an interview. Cambridge Analytica provided documents to the House Intelligence Committee about its work with the Trump campaign last year. The panel also interviewed CEO Alexander Nix over video conference from a Washington law office instead of in person at the Capitol, a move that frustrated committee Democrats. Nix was questioned about the firm’s work with the Trump campaign. “We need to bring [Nix] back. I also think we need to bring in the other witnesses from Cambridge Analytica that we had asked the majority to previously [agree to],” Schiff said, referencing Democrats’ calls for interviews with other Cambridge Analytica executives and GOP donor Rebekah Mercer, whose father Robert helped create the political data firm. Facebook has already faced scrutiny and calls for regulation in Washington amid investigations into Russian efforts to disrupt the election using fake news and political ads disseminated on the platform and other social media sites. Lawmakers, including Warner and Klobuchar, have called for tighter regulations of online political ads and greater disclosure requirements, which Facebook and other tech companies have resisted. The company has also worked to improve its image in Washington in recent months: Chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg traveled to Washington last fall to meet with congressional leaders in October amid the House and Senate Intelligence Committee investigations into Russian election meddling. 

